-----BEGIN PRIVACY-ENHANCED MESSAGE-----Proc-Type: 2001,MIC-CLEAROriginator-Name: webmaster@www.sec.govOriginator-Key-Asymmetric: MFgwCgYEVQgBAQICAf8DSgAwRwJAW2sNKK9AVtBzYZmr6aGjlWyK3XmZv3dTINen TWSM7vrzLADbmYQaionwg5sDW3P6oaM5D3tdezXMm7z1T+B+twIDAQABMIC-Info: RSA-MD5,RSA, EaBSIJnFA/aAKAsagyvav9Jf6tDCb5/KlhOVQ1coptGYOw8EVWYkPVFQgV8NelBD 0B1uQZ1zI1JugOTHABSZOA==0000950133-06-001319.txt : 200603160000950133-06-001319.hdr.sgml : 2006031620060316162811ACCESSION NUMBER:		0000950133-06-001319CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-KPUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		9CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20051231FILED AS OF DATE:		20060316DATE AS OF CHANGE:		20060316FILER:	COMPANY DATA:			COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			XO HOLDINGS INC		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0001111634		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	TELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS (NO RADIO TELEPHONE) [4813]		IRS NUMBER:				541983517		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			DE		FISCAL YEAR END:			1231	FILING VALUES:		FORM TYPE:		10-K		SEC ACT:		1934 Act		SEC FILE NUMBER:	000-30900		FILM NUMBER:		06692324	BUSINESS ADDRESS:			STREET 1:		11111 SUNSET HILLS ROAD		CITY:			RESTON		STATE:			VA		ZIP:			20190		BUSINESS PHONE:		7035472000	MAIL ADDRESS:			STREET 1:		11111 SUNSET HILLS ROAD		CITY:			RESTON		STATE:			VA		ZIP:			20190	FORMER COMPANY:			FORMER CONFORMED NAME:	XO COMMUNICATIONS INC		DATE OF NAME CHANGE:	20001024	FORMER COMPANY:			FORMER CONFORMED NAME:	NEXTLINK COMMUNICATIONS INC/NEW		DATE OF NAME CHANGE:	20000622	FORMER COMPANY:			FORMER CONFORMED NAME:	NM ACQUISITION CORP		DATE OF NAME CHANGE:	20000411
10-K1w18563e10vk.htmFORM 10-Ke10vk

Table of Contents



 
    UNITED STATES


    SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE    COMMISSION


    Washington, D.C. 20549    

 
    FORM 10-K
    

 
     
	     
	     
	
    þ    


 
    ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE    SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934


 
 
    For the fiscal year ended December 31, 2005

 
 
 

 

    OR


    o    


 
    TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE    SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934




 
    Commission File    No. 0-30900

 
    XO Holdings, Inc.


    (Exact name of registrant as    specified in its charter)


 
     
	     
	     
	
    Delaware    
(State or other jurisdiction    of incorporation or organization)


 
    74-3163345    
(I.R.S. employer    identification no.)

    




 
    11111    Sunset Hills Road    Reston, Virginia 20190    (Address of principal executive    offices, including zip code)



 
    (703) 547    - 2000    (Registrant's telephone    number, including area code)



 
    Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the    Act:

    None

 
    Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the    Act:    Common Stock, par value $0.01 per share    (Title of class)


 
    Indicate by check mark if the registrant is a well-known    seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities    Act.  Yes o
     No þ    

 
    Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file    reports pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the    Act.  Yes o
     No þ    

 
    Indicate by check mark whether the registrant: (1) has    filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or    15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the    preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the    registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has    been subject to such filing requirements for the past 90    days.  Yes þ
     No o    

 
    Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers    pursuant to Item 405 of    Regulation S-K
    is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best    of Registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or    information statements incorporated by reference in    Part III of this    Form 10-K
    or any amendment to this    Form 10-K.  Yes 
þ
     No o    

 
    Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large    accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, or a non-accelerated    filer. See definition of “accelerated filer and large    accelerated filer” in    Rule 12b-2
    of the Exchange Act. (Check one):
    Large accelerated    filer o
     Accelerated    filer þ
     Non-accelerated    filer o    

 
    Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company    (as defined in    Rule 12b-2
    of the Exchange    Act).  Yes o
     No þ    

 
    The aggregate market value of the common stock held by    non-affiliates of the Registrant, based upon the closing sale    price of the common stock on June 30, 2005 (which is the    last business day of the Registrant's second fiscal    quarter), as reported on the NASDAQ    Over-the-Counter
    Bulletin Board, was approximately $240.8 million.    Shares of common stock held by each executive officer and    director and by certain persons who own 5% or more of the    outstanding common stock have been excluded in that such persons    may be deemed to be affiliates. This determination of affiliate    status is not necessarily a conclusive determination for other    purposes.
 
    Number of shares of common stock outstanding as of    March 15, 2006: 181,933,035
 



 
 
    TABLE OF    CONTENTS





 
     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	
 
 
 
 
    Page



 

    PART I






    1.
    



 
    Business
    

 

    1    




    2.
    



 
    Properties
    

 

    36    




    3.
    



 
    Legal    Proceedings
    

 

    36    




    4.
    



 
    Submission of    Matters to a Vote of Security Holders
    

 

    38    



 

    PART II






    5.
    



 
    Market for    Registrants' Common Equity and Related Stockholder Matters    and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities
    

 

    39    




    6.
    



 
    Selected Financial    Data
    

 

    40    




    7.
    



 
    Management's    Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of    Operations
    

 

    41    




    7A.
    



 
    Quantitative and    Qualitative Disclosure about Market Risk
    

 

    57    




    8.
    



 
    Financial    Statements and Supplementary Data
    

 

    58    




    9.
    



 
    Changes in and    Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial    Disclosure
    

 

    58    




    9A.
    



 
    Controls and    Procedures
    

 

    58    



 

    PART III





    10.
    



 
    Directors and    Executive Officers of the Registrant
    

 

    58    




    11.
    



 
    Executive    Compensation
    

 

    59    




    12.
    



 
    Security Ownership    of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management
    

 

    59    




    13.
    



 
    Certain    Relationships and Related Transactions
    

 

    59    




    14.
    



 
    Principal    Accounting Fees and Services
    

 

    60    



 

    PART IV





    15.
    



 
    Exhibits, Financial    Statement Schedules and Reports on    Form 8-K

    

 

    60    




 

 
    Signatures
    

 

    61    



 EX-21.1



 EX-23.1



 EX-31.1



 EX-31.2



 EX-32.1



 EX-32.2







Table of Contents

 
    PART I



 
    
    

        Item 1.  


        Business





 
    This document contains certain “forward-looking    statements,” within the meaning of the Private Securities    Litigation Reform Act of 1995, including statements regarding,    among other items, our expected financial position, business,    and financing plans. These forward-looking statements are based    on our current expectations and are naturally subject to risks,    uncertainties, and changes in circumstances, certain of which    are beyond our control. Actual results may differ materially    from those expressed or implied by such forward-looking    statements.
 
    The words “believe,” “plan,”    “target,” “expect,” “intends,” and    “anticipate,” and expressions of similar substance    identify forward-looking statements. Although we believe that    the expectations reflected in such forward-looking statements    are reasonable, we can give no assurance that those expectations    will prove to be correct. Important factors that could cause    actual results to differ materially from the expectations    described in this report are set forth under “Risk    Factors” in Item 1 and elsewhere in this report.    Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these    forward-looking statements, which speak only as of their dates.    We undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise any    forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new    information, future events, or otherwise.
 
    Business    Overview


 
    XO Holdings, Inc., or XO Holdings, is a leading    facilities-based, competitive telecommunications services    provider that delivers a comprehensive array of    telecommunications services to business customers. We operate    our business in two business units through two primary operating    subsidiaries, which we refer to as the Wireless Business and the    Wireline Business. Our subsidiary XO Communications LLC, or XO    LLC, operates our Wireline Business, providing local and long    distance voice services, Internet access, private data    networking and hosting services through a national    telecommunications network consisting of more than 6,700 metro    route miles of fiber optic lines connecting 953 unique incumbent    local exchange carrier, or ILEC, end-office collocations in 37    U.S. cities. XO LLC operates under the trade name “XO    Communications”. Our subsidiary LMDS Holdings, Inc., or    LMDS Co., operates our Wireless Business, and owns Federal    Communications Commission, or FCC, licenses to deliver    telecommunications services via local, multipoint distribution    service, or LMDS, wireless spectrum in more than 70    U.S. cities. Our Wireless Business is at an early stage of    development, and we plan to market our services primarily to    telecommunication carriers, business customers, and government    agencies. Additional information about our business, including    financial information, is included under the heading    “Comparison of Business Unit Financial Results,” and    in Note 3 of our Consolidated Financial Statements.
 
    As discussed further under the heading “Wireline Sale”    below, on November  4, 2005 we reached an agreement to    sell our Wireline Business.
 
    We utilize the terms “we”, “ours”,    “us” and other similar terms to describe XO Holdings    and its operating subsidiaries and affiliates.
 
    Company    History


 
    XO Holdings was formed in December 2005 as part of a corporate    restructuring to facilitate the sale of our Wireline Business as    discussed below under the heading “Wireline Sale.” The    Wireline Sale has not been completed, and XO Holdings will own    both the Wireline Business operated by XO LLC and the Wireless    Business operated by LMDS Co. until the Wireline Sale has been    consummated. Following the completion of the Wireline Sale, we    will focus our business on delivering wireless communications    solutions.
 
    In December 2001, XO Communications, Inc., or XOC, voluntarily    delisted its pre-petition class A common stock from the    Nasdaq National Market, and, on December 17, 2001, began    trading on the    Over-the-Counter
    Bulletin Board, or OTCBB.
        1
Table of Contents

    On June 17 2002, XOC filed for protection under Title 11 of    the Bankruptcy Code in the United States Bankruptcy Court for    the Southern District of New York. On November 15, 2002,    the Bankruptcy Court confirmed XOC's plan of    reorganization, and, on January 16, 2003, XOC consummated    the plan of reorganization and emerged from its Chapter 11    reorganization proceedings with a significantly restructured    balance sheet.
 
    On June 23, 2004, XOC completed the acquisition of all of    the local exchange carrier businesses, or the Acquired    Businesses, of Allegiance Telecom, Inc., or ATI. With the    acquisition we became one of the nation's largest    competitive providers of national local telecommunications and    broadband services.
 
    Our principal executive and administrative offices are located    at 11111 Sunset Hills Road, Reston, Virginia 20190 and our    telephone number is    (703) 547-2000.
    Our Internet address is www.xo.com, where, under “About    XO  —  Investor Relations”, you    can find copies of this annual report on    Form 10-K,
    and our quarterly reports on    Form 10-Q
    and current reports on    Form 8-K,
    all of which we make available as soon as reasonably practicable    after the report is filed with the Securities and Exchange    Commission, or SEC.
 
    Wireline    Sale


 
    On November 4, 2005, XO Holdings and XOC entered into an    equity purchase agreement, or the Equity Purchase Agreement,    that, as amended on March 1, 2006, provides for the sale of    our national wireline telecommunications business, or the    Wireline Sale, through the sale of all of the outstanding LLC    interests in XO LLC, a newly formed, wholly-owned subsidiary of    XO Holdings, for an aggregate purchase price of    $700 million, consisting of $625 million in cash and    the assumption of $75 million of our outstanding senior    secured debt. Assuming the Wireline Sale closed on March 1,    2006, we would have used approximately $451.0 million of    the proceeds of the Wireline Sale to repay, in accordance with    the existing Credit Facility, all but $75 million of our    remaining senior secured debt and to offer to redeem our    outstanding preferred stock. Following the Wireline Sale, we    will be debt-free and we currently expect to have more than    $300 million in cash to fund the development of our early    stage Wireless Business and for other corporate purposes.
 
    Our board of directors, or our Board, determined, with    Messrs. Icahn, Intrieri, Meister and Weber abstaining,    based upon the unanimous approval and recommendation of a    Special Committee of the Board, which Special Committee    consisted of our independent, non-management directors, that the    terms of the Equity Purchase Agreement and the transactions    contemplated thereby (including the Wireline Sale and the    amendment to the Equity Purchase Agreement) are fair to,    advisable and in the best interests of the XO and our    stockholders. The Special Committee was advised by independent    legal counsel and relied on Jefferies & Company, Inc.,    or Jefferies, for financial advice.
 
    With the assistance of Jefferies, we conducted an extensive    solicitation and auction process for the sale of the assets that    comprise our Wireline Business. Simultaneously, Jefferies    explored and developed viable strategic alternatives to such a    sale, including the refinancing of our outstanding senior    secured debt. At the conclusion of this process, which was    overseen by the Special Committee, the Special Committee    concluded that the Wireline Sale was in the best interests of    our Company and our stockholders. With the assistance of the    Special Committee's counsel and our outside counsel, the    Special Committee negotiated the terms of the Equity Purchase    Agreement and the related transaction documents, adopted and    approved the Equity Purchase Agreement and the transactions    contemplated thereby (including the Wireline Sale and the Equity    Purchase Agreement), and recommended the adoption and approval    thereof by the Board. At the time of its recommendation to the    Board, the Special Committee had received an opinion from    Jefferies to the effect that the consideration to be paid    pursuant to the Equity Purchase Agreement in connection with the    Wireline Sale is fair to us from a financial point of view. As a    result of the foregoing, the Special Committee and the Board    have adopted and approved the Equity Purchase Agreement and the    transactions contemplated thereby, including the Wireline Sale    and the Amendment.
 
    The winning bidder was Elk Associates LLC, or the Buyer, an    entity owned by our controlling stockholder, Mr. Carl C.    Icahn, or Mr. Icahn, which has executed the Equity Purchase    Agreement to purchase the Wireline Business. As provided in the    Equity Purchase Agreement, XO Holdings and the Special
        2
Table of Contents

    Committee remain open to consideration of superior proposals    from third parties in certain events, subject to paying the    Buyer a    break-up
 fee    of 1% of the consideration payable in the transaction in the    event that XO Holdings receives and determines to accept a    superior proposal.
 
    The Equity Purchase Agreement conditions the Wireline Sale upon    the affirmative vote of the holders of a majority of the voting    power of our outstanding capital stock entitled to vote on the    Equity Purchase Agreement and the transactions contemplated    thereby (including the Wireline Sale and the amendment to the    Equity Purchase Agreement). The sale of all of the equity    interests in XO LLC held by us as contemplated by the Wireline    Sale pursuant to the Equity Purchase Agreement may be deemed a    sale of substantially all of the assets of XO Holdings, thus    requiring stockholder approval. Cardiff Holdings LLC, or    Cardiff, which beneficially owns approximately 62% of our    outstanding common stock and approximately 95% of our    outstanding preferred stock, has entered into a Stockholder    Voting Agreement, dated as of November 4, 2005, or the    Stockholder Voting Agreement, with us, which requires Cardiff to    vote all of its shares of our capital stock in favor of the    adoption and approval of (i) the Equity Purchase Agreement    and the transactions contemplated thereby, or (ii) if the    Special Committee ultimately determines in accordance with the    Equity Purchase Agreement that certain third party proposals are    superior to the Wireline Sale contemplated by the Equity    Purchase Agreement, such superior proposal. As a result of the    Stockholder Voting Agreement, unless the Equity Purchase    Agreement is terminated prior to our annual meeting in    accordance with its terms, including in connection with a    superior proposal, it is assured that, at the annual meeting,    the Equity Purchase Agreement and the transactions contemplated    thereby (including the Wireline Sale and the amendment to the    Equity Purchase Agreement) will be adopted and approved by our    stockholders.
 
    The Wireline Sale is the subject of pending shareholder    litigation, as more fully described in “Item 3. Legal    Proceedings.”
 
    The    Restructuring


 
    XO Holdings was initially formed as the wholly-owned subsidiary    of XOC, our predecessor, on October 25, 2005. On such date,    XO LLC was formed as XO Holdings' wholly-owned subsidiary.    To facilitate the Wireline Sale, on February 28, 2006, XOC    and XO LLC consummated the restructuring merger contemplated by    the Equity Purchase Agreement, or the Restructuring Merger, in    which XO Communications merged with and into XO LLC, with XO LLC    being the entity that survived the Restructuring Merger. Upon    the completion of the Restructuring Merger, we succeeded to    XOC's business and all shares of XOC capital stock options,    warrants and other rights to acquire shares of capital stock,    which were converted into corresponding shares of our capital    stock, and corresponding options, warrants or other rights to    acquire shares of our capital stock. In connection with the    Restructuring Merger, all directors of XOC became our directors,    and all board committees, including the Special Committee    described below, continued with the same membership. The    Restructuring Merger was consummated in accordance with    Section 251(g) of the Delaware General Corporation Law, and    did not require stockholder approval to be completed.
 
    XO Holdings' common stock is quoted on the Over the Counter    Bulletin Board of The Nasdaq Stock Market, Inc. under the    ticker symbol “XOHO.OB”.
 
    2005    Highlights


 
    
    
    

     
        • 
        Wireline Sale.
  In November 2005, we determined    to enter into the Wireline Sale in order to focus on the    development of our Wireless Business. Following the consummation    of the Wireline Sale, we will continue to hold between 1,100 and    1,300 MHz of LMDS spectrum and other wireless spectrum in    over 70 U.S. markets, will be debt-free, and will have over    $300 million in capital to fund the construction of our    fixed wireless communications networks, and the initial startup,    growth, operation, and development of our Wireless Business.

 

     
        • 
        Initial Deployment of Wireless Communications    Networks.
  In 2005, we commenced the deployment of    our wireless communications networks in Florida, and we are in    the early stages of deploying our wireless communication    networks in Georgia, Texas, and California. As network    deployment continues


        3
Table of Contents

    
    
    

     
    
        in those cities, we anticipate focusing on marketing and    delivering additional telecommunications services to customers    located in those areas based on our growing network footprint.


 
    
    
    

     
        • 
        Expansion of VoIP Products.
  On April 18,    2005, we launched the Company's initial Voice over Internet    Protocol, or VoIP, product, named XOptions Flex, in 45 major    metropolitan markets. We later expanded the product offering to    two additional markets. Our VoIP product enables small to medium    sized business customers to utilize “dynamic bandwidth    allocation” to maximize the utilization of their bandwidth    by allocating it to data applications during periods when voice    lines are idle. XOptions Flex bundles local and long distance    calling, dedicated Internet access and web hosting services for    a flat monthly price. We anticipate expanding our VoIP offering    to larger customers in 2006.


 
    The    U.S. Telecommunications Market


 
    While competitive local exchange carriers, or CLECs, like us    have provided telecommunications competition and service since    1996, the market for telecommunications services, particularly    local exchange services, remains dominated by the ILECs,    consisting primarily of the former subsidiaries of AT&T    known as the Regional Bell Operating Companies, or    RBOCs,  —  Verizon, AT&T Corp.    (formerly SBC Communications, Inc.), Qwest Communications, and    BellSouth  —  which each own the    majority of the local exchange network in their respective    operating regions of the United States.
 
    The telecommunications industry currently remains in a state of    competitive transition. Also, the combination of new federal and    state regulations, continued growth of wireless communications    services, emergence of new technologies, industry consolidation,    and entry of new telecommunications competitors has contributed    to a rapidly changing market for telecommunications services.    The telecommunications services market is highly competitive and    continues to experience downward pricing pressure. These issues    and the potential impact to XO Holdings are discussed below.
 
    Federal Rulemaking.

  Effective as of    March 11, 2005, the Federal Communications    Commission's, or FCC's, Triennial Review Remand Order,    or TRRO, altered a number of significant federal regulations    applicable to the provision of competitive telecommunications    services in a manner favorable to incumbent carriers. The TRRO    established new standards for when CLECs are permitted to obtain    cost-based rates from ILECs when leasing unbundled network    elements, or UNEs, which connect a customer's location with    the applicable communications network end office, commonly    referred to as “loops”. This aspect of the TRRO    resulted in increased rates to us and in an increase to our    wireline costs of service in 2005 of approximately    $14 million, and we anticipate that such rate increases    will result in a total annualized 2006 increase of up to    $75 million in our costs of service.
 
    Emergence of New Technologies.

  Several    new technologies are being adopted by telecommunications    carriers that could cause significant changes in the competitive    landscape for telecommunications services. Such technologies    include:
 
    
    
    

     
        • 
        IP Communications
.
  VoIP technology    enables delivery of voice and data telecommunications services    over a single Internet Protocol, or IP, network, rather than    through the existing Public Switched Telephone Network, or PSTN.    The proliferation of    IP-based
    communications services will cause facilities-based    communication carriers like us to transition from our current    network infrastructure to an    IP-based
    infrastructure over time. While an    IP-based
    communications network is less costly to operate, the migration    of our customers to an IP communications environment will occur    gradually and will require us to incur augmented operations    costs to complete the migration. In addition, the new IP    technology has enabled the entrance of new competitors in the    communications marketplace. We have deployed our own suite of    VoIP products, including our initial VoIP implementation, named    XOptions Flex, that enables customers to utilize “dynamic    bandwidth allocation” to maximize the utilization of their    bandwidth by allocating it for data applications during periods    when voice lines are idle. We anticipate adding new IP products    with more IP features in an attempt to target larger customers    than those targeted with XOptions Flex.


        4
Table of Contents

 
    
    
    

     
        • 
        Fixed Broadband Wireless
.
  There has    been ongoing development of technical equipment and data    encryption and compression protocols that permit the use of high    bandwidth wireless connections between physical locations that    are located within a line of sight across relatively short    distances, usually three to seven miles. In addition, new    protocols are under development, such as WiMax, that are    designed to allow wireless    last-mile
    connectivity that is not limited by line of sight requirements.    In each case, these wireless technologies will allow competitive    carriers to bypass the ILEC and market their services to    customers directly via high capacity, wireless connections. We    are developing our fixed wireless communications business to    take advantage of this market trend.

 

     
        • 
        Mobile Wireless Technologies
.
  Wireless    carriers have engaged in rapid development of new high bandwidth    applications to be delivered to their customers via wireless    devices, commonly referred to as “3G” broadband    wireless networks. Such applications include the delivery of    video and photos via wireless connection. The ongoing adoption    of broadband networks and applications could mean that current    wireless telecommunications carriers will require significantly    greater wireline and wireless bandwidth for transport of their    customers' traffic, presenting an opportunity for us to    offer both wireline and wireless transport, backhaul and    termination services to those wireless carriers.


 
    Industry Consolidation.

  In the fourth    quarter of 2005, the Federal Communications Commission, or FCC,    and the U.S. Department of Justice approved the mergers of    SBC Communications, Inc. with AT&T Corp. and Verizon    Communications, Inc. with MCI, Inc. In addition, AT&T Corp.    and BellSouth, Inc. have announced their intention to enter into    a business combination. Those transactions have resulted in a    substantial consolidation of U.S. wireline    telecommunications resources and revenue.
 
    Growth of the Mobile Wireless    Market.

  Unlike the market for wireline    telecommunications services, the overall market for mobile    wireless telecommunications services has continued to grow in    recent years. While we believe that business customers will    generally continue to require wireline services, businesses have    increasingly adopted wireless solutions for their routine    communications requirements. According to a published report, in    2006, aggregate spending by business customers on wireless    communications services are anticipated to exceed business    customers spending on wireline communications services for the    first time. We believe that our wireline services will continue    to serve the traditional wireline needs of business customers,    while our wireless products will provide mobile wireless    carriers with augmented network capability to meet the    increasing wireless communications demand among businesses.
 
    Entry of New Telecommunications    Competitors.

  In recent years, new competitors    have emerged to traditional, facilities-based telecommunications    services providers. Among these new competitors are VoIP    providers, including companies such as Vonage and Cbeyond, and    providers of other forms of media or telecommunications    services, including cable companies such as Comcast and Cox    Communications. The FCC has noted in several public comments    that it expects that such competitors will provide significant    competition to the ILECs in the future.
 
    Competitive    Strategy


 
    Wireline Business Strategy
.

      With respect to our Wireline Business, we continue to execute    our strategic plan by focusing on the five key strategic    elements below:
 
    Leverage National Network    Footprint.

  Our primary competitive strategy    is to leverage the national reach and technological    sophistication of our metro and intercity fiber network. We    maintain a national network that includes 953 collocations from    which we have the capability to serve over 70 U.S. markets.    We believe that our network footprint gives us the network    capability to provide approximately 45% of all telecommunication    services revenue from U.S. small to medium businesses, or SMBs.
 
    Our network includes an OC-192 IP backbone with extensive cross    connections between the Internet and the PSTN enabling us to    accept IP packets of data originated or carried over the    Internet, and convert that information to voice traffic    terminated or switched over the traditional PSTN. We believe    that the interoperability of our network for both PSTN and IP    traffic will allow carrier and wholesale customers to access our    network more flexibly, and enable us to offer services with    significant appeal to carrier and
        5
Table of Contents

    wholesale customers. Consequently, we believe that we will place    greater emphasis in the future on attracting carrier and    wholesale customers.
 
    Focus on Business Customers.

  Our    services include a broad portfolio across voice, data and    integrated bundled offerings tailored for the business customer.    We serve most market segments for communications services,    however, our focus is on SMBs. As we expand our VoIP products,    we believe that we will continue to attract and maintain new SMB    customers.
 
    Improve Customer Experience.

  Because of    the large number of telecommunications providers and the    relative similarity of the telecommunications services available    to customers, we believe that we must make constant improvements    and refinements to the sales, care, network, and billing    experiences of our customers. We have identified several key    performance areas where we have achieved significant improvement    since the beginning of 2005, including timely provisioning,    customer care efficiency, and billing accuracy.
 
    Reduce Costs of Operations and    Assets.

  We own and operate a national network    consisting of more than 6,700 metro route miles of fiber optic    lines connecting 953 unique ILEC end-office collocations in 37    U.S. cities. Our network requires significant fixed costs    to own and operate. We have nonetheless identified opportunities    to decrease our costs of operations, particularly by deploying    further automation and reducing excess real estate expenses. We    also seek to increase volume in our core product sets and in our    core geographic markets.
 
    Strategic Acquisitions.

  We actively    consider strategic merger and acquisition opportunities that are    likely to result in increased revenue and improved operating    margins by, among other things, expanding our network, allowing    us to optimize our network assets, expanding our service    portfolio, or expanding our customer base. We believe that such    merger and acquisition opportunities will arise in the    telecommunications industry in 2006 generally as a result of    regulatory developments, technological developments and shifting    marketplace pressures.
 
    Wireless Business Strategy
.

   Our    Wireless Business strategy is focused on several key elements:
 
    Initial Focus on Telecommunications    Carriers.

  Our products will initially be    targeted to mobile wireless and wireline telecommunications    carriers. We believe that our current wireless services present    both cost savings and enhanced network performance and    redundancy. In addition, we believe that our opportunities among    these customers will increase as the bandwidth and redundancy    requirements of carrier customers grow.
 
    Demand-Driven Network Expansion.

  Our    strategy is to deploy equipment to enable product delivery    primarily upon completion of successful pre-marketing and sales    efforts. Our initial deployments since 2003 have been driven by    completed customer sales, and our recent deployments in Florida    were driven by an executed contract with a national wireless    carrier. We anticipate that future expansion of new markets will    be similar and will enable us to expend our capital prior to but    in general proportion to the growth of our revenue. As we make    additional sales in existing market, we anticipate leveraging    our operating cash flow to leverage buildout in such markets, as    well as to supplement capital expenditures required to offer    services in new markets.
 
    Offer Competitive Pricing.

  Wireless    point-to-multipoint
    broadband networks allow transmissions between multiple customer    antennas and a single base station antenna, thereby allowing us    to deliver products to diverse customers via the same spectrum.    Additionally, capital costs to enable this spectrum have    decreased significantly in recent years. We believe we will be    able to take advantage of these favorable economics to provide    wireless services that in most cases will be priced    competitively with services offered through traditional,    wireline facilities.
 
    Synthesize New Technologies into Comprehensive    Solutions.

  We believe that the IT and telecom    industries, and the wireless industry in particular, are moving    toward a pure IP environment. We believe that there are    opportunities to synthesize new technologies, such as WiMax,    into our products for the deployment of new wireless services in    the future.
        6
Table of Contents

    Wireline    Business Services


 
    We provide business customers with a comprehensive array of    wireline voice and data telecommunications services, including    local and long distance voice, Internet access, private data    networking and hosting services. We have designed these    telecommunications services principally to meet the needs of our    business customers, from SMBs to multi-location businesses,    large enterprises, as well as carrier and wholesale service    providers. Substantially all of our revenues are earned by our    Wireline Business.
 
    As discussed further under the heading “Wireline Sale”    above, on November  4, 2005 we reached an agreement to    sell our Wireline Business.
 
    Integrated    Voice and Data Services


 
    XOptions, XOptions Flex and Total    Communications.

  We offer integrated bundled    packages of voice and data services, known as XOptions and Total    Communications, to SMBs that include flat-rate packages for    specified amounts of certain services, including local and long    distance voice services, Internet access and web hosting    services. Both of these bundled services include a variety of    service options designed to accommodate different customers with    anywhere from 10 to 100 employees per location. These services    can result in significant savings over the average cost of    buying these services from separate competitive voice and data    providers. We also offer XOptions Flex, our VoIP product that    bundles local, long distance calling, dedicated Internet access    and web hosting services for a flat monthly price. VoIP    technology allows customers to utilize “dynamic bandwidth    allocation” to maximize the utilization of their bandwidth    by allocating it to data applications during periods when voice    lines are idle.
 
    Managed Services.

  We also provide    telecommunications management services to businesses in which we    install and maintain a telecommunications system for a customer,    and provide the related communications services.
 
    Voice    Services


 
    We offer a variety of voice applications and services as an    alternative to the ILECs. These voice services include:
 
    
    
    

     
        • 
        local standard dial tone, including touch-tone dialing, 911    access and operator assisted calling;

 

     
        • 
        local multi-trunk dial tone services, including primary rate    interface, or PRI, with direct inward dialing, and direct    outward dialing;

 

     
        • 
        long distance services, including 1+, toll free, calling card    and operator services;

 

     
        • 
        IP termination services;

 

     
        • 
        voice messaging with personalized greetings, send, transfer,    reply and remote retrieval capabilities;

 

     
        • 
        conferencing services, including voice and web conferencing    services;

 

     
        • 
        directory listings and assistance; and

 

     
        • 
        hosted interactive voice response services.


 
    In each of our markets, we have negotiated and entered into    interconnection agreements with the applicable ILEC and certain    independent carriers, and implemented permanent local number    portability, which allows our new customers to retain their    telephone numbers when they choose us as their service provider.
 
    Data    Services


 
    Internet    Access.


  Our    Internet access offerings include dedicated access services    targeted at businesses that desire single or multipoint    high-speed, dedicated connections to the Internet. Our dedicated    Internet access service provides guaranteed internet speeds    ranging from 56 kilobits per second, or kbps, to 1 Gigabit per    

        7
Table of Contents

    second, or Gbps. Our digital subscriber line, or DSL, service    also includes a wide range of dedicated access speeds for SMBs.    We are a tier-1 Internet backbone provider in the U.S., with    over 200 public and private peering arrangements with other    Internet backbone networks.
 
    Private    Data    Networking.


  We    provide dedicated transmission capacity on our networks to    customers that desire high-bandwidth data links between    locations. We offer special access and    point-to-point
    circuits to telecommunications carriers and other high volume    customers, which they use as both primary and    back-up
    circuits. In addition, fiber optic technology that enables    signals to be transmitted at different wavelengths on a single    fiber allows us to lease one or more dedicated wavelengths to    customers that desire high-bandwidth links between locations. We    currently offer these services with connections of up to 9.6    gigabits per second, a transmission rate that is described in    our industry as OC-192. This service supports a variety of    transmission protocols, including Asynchronous Transfer Mode, or    ATM, Frame Relay, and Synchronous Optical Network, or SONET.    

 
    Our virtual private network, or VPN, services enable customers    to deploy tailored,    IP-based
    business applications for secure internal enterprise,    business-to-business
    and    business-to-customer
    data communications among geographically dispersed locations,    while also affording high-speed access to the Internet. VPN    services also provide secure access for remote users, such as    traveling employees and employees working from home or a remote    location, which is not possible using private line and frame    relay services. We also offer managed firewall services.
 
    Finally, we offer a suite of Ethernet services, including    Gigabit Ethernet, or GigE, in most of our U.S. markets, as    well as intercity Ethernet services between our markets. Our    Ethernet services are designed to provide high-speed,    high-capacity connections between customers' local area    networks, or LANs, within and between metropolitan areas, which    reduces their costs as it eliminates the need for ongoing    configuration, management and acquisition of equipment by the    customer.
 
    Hosting    Services.


  We    offer a range of applications hosting services that can manage a    customer's web-based infrastructure and operational needs,    allowing customers to focus on their web-based content. In    addition, we provide server management tools and services to    manage customers' larger computers, which are known as    servers, for them.    

 
    Our hosting services include:
 
    
    
    

     
        • 
        Web Hosting:

  support for    customers' websites, including design, maintenance and    telecommunications services; and

 

     
        • 
        Server Collocation:

  collocation of    customers' servers in our data centers.


 
    We also offer a variety of value-added tools and applications    that enable our customers to conduct targeted email marketing,    register their web site with hundreds of Internet search engines    and directories, build catalogues and sell products over the    web, and coordinate meetings and appointments online. And    finally, we offer a suite of hosting outsourcing services that    provides customers with web-based access to email, group    distribution lists, calendaring, contacts databases management    and file sharing.
 
    Our    Network


 
    Our network consists of state of the art metro fiber rings and    intercity network capable of carrying high volumes of data,    voice, video and Internet traffic. We utilize network assets    located across the United States, substantially all of which we    own or control through indefeasible exclusive rights or other    leasing or contractual arrangements, making us a national    facilities-based carrier. We are able to provide our services to    our customers entirely over an integrated national network, from    the initiation of the voice or data transmission to the point of    termination. This allows us to offer our customers a high level    of service.
        8
Table of Contents

    Metro    Fiber Networks and Local Facilities


 
    Our metro fiber networks consist of rings of more than 888,000    fiber miles of fiber optic cables encircling the central    business districts of numerous metropolitan areas. A “fiber    mile” is equal to the number of route miles multiplied by    the number of fibers along that path. We operate 37 metro fiber    networks in 22 states and the District of Columbia,    including 25 of the 30 largest metropolitan areas in the    U.S. In the aggregate, our metro fiber networks connect    approximately 953 unique ILEC end-office collocations.
 
    The core of each of our metro fiber networks is a ring of fiber    optic cable in a city's central business district that    connects to our central offices from which we can provision    services to our customers. These central offices contain the    switches and routers that direct data and voice traffic to their    destinations, and also have the space to house the additional    equipment necessary for future telecommunications services. A    critical element of our metro fiber network is the number of    central offices in which we have located our routing and    transmission equipment within each of our local markets,    referred to as collocations. In general, a CLEC is able to    provision services at lower cost if it operates a collocation    within a relatively short distance of its customer. Following    our acquisition of the Acquired Businesses in June 2004, we    operate collocations in 953 central offices as part of our    network, virtually all of which are concentrated in the business    districts in which our target customers are located. We operate    one of the most extensive collocation footprints in the United    States. We believe that our extensive collocations provide us    with substantial market opportunities to both sell services to    our targeted SMB customers and to serve as points of termination    for traffic originated by other carriers.
 
    Whenever we can, we build and own these metro fiber networks    ourselves or obtain indefeasible rights to use fiber so that we    can control the design and technology used to best meet our    customers' needs. We built our high capacity metro fiber    networks using a backbone density typically ranging between 72    and 432 strands of fiber optic cable. Fiber optic cables have    the capacity, or bandwidth, to carry tens of thousands of times    the amount of traffic as traditionally-configured copper wire.    Our high-count fiber strands allow us to augment the scale of    our broadband and voice services without incurring significant    additional construction costs. Indefeasible exclusive rights are    contracts with the owners of fiber optic cables that allow us to    use a specified amount of capacity on a specified fiber on those    cables for terms ranging from 10 to 25 years.
        9
Table of Contents

    We operate 37 metro fiber networks serving over 70 markets noted    below:
 
     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	
 
 
    Metro Fiber    


 
 
 
 
 
    Metro Fiber    


 
 

 
 
    Network    


 
 
 
 
 
    Network    


 
 

    State



 
    Location


 
    Service Market


 
    State


 
    Location


 
    Service Market



 

    AZ    


 
    Phoenix    

 
    Phoenix    

 
    MI    

 
    Detroit    

 
    Detroit    


    CA    


 
    Los Angeles    

 
    Los Angeles    

 
    MN    

 
    Minneapolis    

 
    Greater Minneapolis/St. Paul    


    CA    


 
    Orange County    

 
    Anaheim    

 
    MO    

 
    St Louis    

 
    St Louis    


 
 
 
 
    Costa Mesa    

 
    NJ    

 
    New Jersey    

 
    Bergen/Passaic    


 
 
 
 
    Fullerton    

 
 
 
 
 
    Middlesex-Somerset-Hunterdon    


 
 
 
 
    Garden Grove    

 
 
 
 
 
    Newark    


 
 
 
 
    Huntington Beach    

 
 
 
 
 
    Jersey City    


 
 
 
 
    Inglewood    

 
 
 
 
 
    Monmouth-Ocean    


 
 
 
 
    Irving    

 
 
 
 
 
    Trenton    


 
 
 
 
    Long Beach    

 
    NV    

 
    Las Vegas    

 
    Las Vegas    


 
 
 
 
    Orange    

 
    NY    

 
    New York    

 
    Manhattan    


 
 
 
 
    Santa Ana    

 
 
 
 
 
    Nassau-Suffolk    


    CA    


 
    Sacramento    

 
    Sacramento    

 
    OH    

 
    Cleveland / Akron    

 
    Cleveland-Lorain-Elyria    


    CA    


 
    San Diego    

 
    San Diego    

 
 
 
 
 
    Akron    


    CA    


 
    San Francisco    

 
    San Francisco    

 
 
 
 
 
    Canton-Massillon    


 
 
 
 
    Oakland    

 
    OH    

 
    Columbus    

 
    Columbus    


 
 
 
 
    Fremont    

 
    OR    

 
    Portland    

 
    Portland-Vancouver, OR-WA    


 
 
 
 
    Milpitas    

 
    PA / DE    

 
    Central PA    

 
    Allentown-Bethlehem-Easton    


 
 
 
 
    Mountain View    

 
 
 
 
 
    Harrisburg-Lebanon-Carlisle    


 
 
 
 
    Palo Alto    

 
 
 
 
 
    Lancaster    


 
 
 
 
    Santa Clara    

 
 
 
 
 
    Reading    


 
 
 
 
    Sunnyvale    

 
 
 
 
 
    Scranton-Wilkes-Barre-Hazleton    


    CA    


 
    San Jose    

 
    San Jose    

 
 
 
 
 
    York    


    CO    


 
    Denver    

 
    Denver    

 
 
 
 
 
    Wilmington-Newark, DE-MD    


 
 
 
 
    Boulder-Longmont    

 
 
 
 
 
    Dover    


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

    DC/VA    


 
    Washington DC/    Northern VA    

 
    Washington, DC-MD-VA-WV    

 
    PA    

 
    Philadelphia    

 
    Philadelphia, PA-NJ    


    FL    


 
    Ft Lauderdale    

 
    Ft Lauderdale    

 
    TN    

 
    Memphis    

 
    Memphis, TN-AR-MS    


    FL    


 
    Miami    

 
    Miami    

 
    TN    

 
    Nashville    

 
    Nashville    


 
 
 
 
    West Palm Beach-Boca Raton    

 
    TX    

 
    Austin    

 
    Austin-San Marco    


    FL    


 
    Orlando    

 
    Orlando    

 
    TX    

 
    Dallas / Ft Worth    

 
    Dallas    


 
 
 
 
    Tampa-St.    

 
 
 
 
 
 

    FL    


 
    Tampa    

 
    Petersburg-Clearwater    

 
 
 
 
 
    Fort Worth-Arlington    


    GA    


 
    Atlanta    

 
    Atlanta    

 
    TX    

 
    Houston    

 
    Houston    


 
 
 
 
    Marietta    

 
    TX    

 
    San Antonio    

 
    San Antonio    


    IL    


 
    Chicago    

 
    Chicago    

 
    UT    

 
    Salt Lake City    

 
    Salt Lake City-Ogden    


    MA    


 
    Boston    

 
    Boston, MA-NH    

 
 
 
 
 
    Orem/Provo    


 
 
 
 
    Brockton    

 
    WA    

 
    Seattle    

 
    Seattle-Bellevue-Everett    


 
 
 
 
    Lawrence, MA-NH    

 
    WA    

 
    Spokane    

 
    Spokane    


 
 
 
 
    Lowell, MA-NH    

 
 
 
 
 
    Lewiston    


 
 
 
 
    Worcester, MA-CT    

 
 
 
 
 
    Clarkston    


    MD    


 
    Baltimore    

 
    Baltimore    

 
 
 
 
 
    Coeur d'Alene    




        10
Table of Contents

    Intercity    Network


 
    Our intercity fiber network is comprised of a twenty year    indefeasible exclusive right to use 18 fiber optic strands    pursuant to arrangements with Level 3 Communications, Inc.,    or Level 3. This fiber network traverses over    16,000 miles and connects more than 60 cities in the    United States and Canada, including most of the major    metropolitan markets served by our metro fiber networks.
 
    In 2001, we entered into several service agreements, one of    which addressed the lease of wavelengths, primarily from    Level 3 for five-year periods. Those leases for the    intercity wavelength capacity will expire in 2006 and 2007. At    the time of executing the service agreements for lease of such    wavelengths, the level of traffic in relationship to capacity    and the availability of wavelength capacity to us at    cost-efficient lease rates, made it more cost-effective to lease    wavelengths rather than deploy our own equipment to activate    segments of our intercity fiber network. However, we have    designed and installed much of the equipment we use to route    traffic so that we can easily transfer voice and data traffic    from leased wavelength capacity onto our intercity fiber network    as increased traffic on certain segments makes lighting the    intercity fiber network the more cost effective approach.    Starting in 2006, we expect to light our intercity fiber    network. We believe that lighting our intercity fiber network    will be strategically beneficial to us because it provides a    lower cost basis for running our network and enables faster and    more profitable growth. We have received correspondence from    Level 3 indicating that, as a result of disclosure we    included in our 2004 Annual Report on    Form 10-K,
    wherein we indicated that we were considering among other    options, lighting our dark fiber in the United States, we were    and are in material breach of our contractual obligations to    Level 3. See “Item 3. Legal Proceedings.”
 
    Our metro fiber networks are connected by our own switching,    routing and optical equipment to dedicated, high-capacity    wavelengths of transmission capacity, on intercity fiber optic    cables, which we refer to as wavelengths, and which composes the    majority of our over 290,000 intercity fiber miles of network.    By using our own switching and routing equipment, we maximize    the capacity and enhance the performance of our intercity    network as needed to meet our customers' current and future    telecommunications needs.
 
    We have designed and built an advanced and reliable intercity    network. There are at least two physically diverse fiber lines    connecting each of our markets to any other of our markets. This    allows us to reroute traffic around fiber cuts to ensure    end-to-end
    connectivity to our customers. Each metro fiber ring is also    connected to our other rings at a minimum of two points. This    ensures that customer traffic can be rerouted around any given    market to avoid network problems like facility congestion. This    also ensures that any problem in a given market will not    significantly affect the rest of the network.
 
    Our IP network consists of an OC-192 capacity backbone running    through or adjacent to our intercity fiber network. Our IP    backbone connects to our intercity fiber network at nine IP    backbone nodes, 62 local facilities in 34 markets, and two    hosting data centers. Each IP backbone node provides intercity    IP transport between each of our metro fiber networks and    connectivity to other Internet Service Providers or ISPs, which    is commonly referred to as peering. Peering with other ISPs is    done in each of our IP backbone facilities except for Denver.
 
    Our SONET IP architecture provides the highest level of    restoration available today over 10 Gbps wavelengths. Redundant    routes and capacity are identified and reserved so that in the    event of a failure, the network will systematically restore    traffic in the shortest time possible without the need for human    involvement.
 
    Sales    Overview


 
    Our sales organization for our Wireline Business services    includes both direct and indirect sales representatives.
 
    Direct Sales.

  Our direct sales and    sales support organization consisted of more than 1,000    employees at December 31, 2005. Our direct sales force    includes two sales organizations, one that addresses the needs    of commercial retail customers and one that services wholesale    carrier accounts. Our commercial sales organization focuses on    our SMB customers, developing multi-market accounts and national    accounts. Our carrier sales
        11
Table of Contents

    organization focuses solely on servicing telecommunications    providers who, in combination with other capabilities, provide    telecommunications services under their own brand. Our carrier    customers benefit from our national network, our data service    capabilities, our broad range of services and our cost effective    solution design. In addition, as a result of the recent    limitations on the availability of cost-based UNE rates for    local transport imposed by the FCC TRRO, we believe that our    extensive local network may provide additional opportunities for    carrier accounts.
 
    Indirect Sales Representatives.

  We have    complemented our direct sales force with over 1,400 third party    sales agents to distribute the products and services available    to our customers. We currently have distribution arrangements    with a number of national, regional and local agents and agency    firms, whose representatives market a broad range of our    services. The deployment of indirect sales agents also furthers    our strategy of increasing our profitable revenue, as we do not    incur costs for indirect sales agents unless and until a sale is    made and installed.
 
    Network    Services


 
    Our network services organization consists of more than 1,700    employees whose main objective is to deliver superior service    and to enhance the customers' experience. Network service    employees are located in all of our markets. Their main    objectives include the design, deployment, and maintenance of    our network assets. In addition, they are responsible for    installing customer premise equipment and activating new    customers as well as maintaining and, when necessary, repairing    any service outages our customers might experience. To be    proactive in repairing any network outages and to maintain the    highest network quality, we have a 24x7 network operations    center with a full network surveillance system.
 
    Customer    Care


 
    Once a customer's services have been installed, our    customer care operations support customer retention and    satisfaction. Our goal is to provide customers with a customer    care group that has the ability and resources to respond to and    resolve customer questions and issues as they arise. We conduct    much of our customer care operations from two call centers. We    also provide locally-based care for many large customers. Our    customer care organization consists of more than 500 customer    care representatives.
 
    Competition


 
    We face competition primarily from the ILEC in our applicable    geographic market, as well as competitive carriers, long    distance and Internet service providers, VoIP carriers, and    cable-based communications providers.
 
    ILECs.

  In each of our 70 markets, the    ILEC generally maintains a dominant market position in the    delivery of local exchange services. We compete with ILECs such    as Verizon, Qwest, BellSouth, and AT&T, formerly known as    SBC, on the basis of our ability to provide nationwide service,    our commitment to customer service, and, where our cost    structure permits, on the basis of price. As a result of recent    industry consolidation, we anticipate further national    competition from AT&T and Verizon through the deployment of    services over the former AT&T and MCI national networks.    While we believe that we have competitive advantages over the    ILECs, each of the ILECs is significantly larger than we are in    annual revenues, total assets, and financial resources, and have    increased their marketing to our target market of SMBs. In    addition, the recent TRRO included several rulings favorable to    incumbent carriers, including the elimination in specific    central offices of the requirement that the incumbent carriers    lease last mile connections to competitive carriers like us at    cost-based, UNE rates.
 
    Competitive Local Exchange Carriers.

  In    addition to competing with the ILECs, we also compete with many    CLECs, most of which are regionally focused. In general, CLECs    often maintain a market or competitive focus that enables them    to be successful with specific products or in specific    geographic or customer segments. Consequently, in each of our    markets, we compete with CLECs who may have different    competitive focuses. While we believe that our national reach    and breadth of products makes us competitive
        12
Table of Contents

    with nearly any telecommunications carrier, we have to address a    wide range of competitive conditions in each of our markets.
 
    Long Distance and Internet Services    Companies.

  There are a number of large long    distance and Internet service providers with which we compete in    providing various Internet access and data products. Such    competitors include Level 3 and Global Crossing.
 
    VoIP Carriers.

  Several companies have    initiated VoIP services in recent years, including Vonage and    Cbeyond, that provide voice telecommunications services    exclusively by means of IP.
 
    Cable-Based Service Providers.

  Several    companies historically focused on the delivery of cable    television services have expanded their service offerings to    include broadband connections and, in some cases, local voice    services. While several such competitors, such as Comcast, Cox    Communications, and Time Warner, have focused on the residential    market for voice communications services, many of these    competitors are significantly larger than we are in annual    revenues, total assets, and financial resources. While we    believe that we enjoy competitive advantages over such companies    because of our industry experience in providing    telecommunications services, many large cable providers may    build a substantial residential customer base and market to our    core SMB market in the future.
 
    Wireless    Business Services


 
    Our wireless services consist primarily of the design and    deployment of wireless communications networks and the delivery    of wireless T-1s, wireless dedicated Internet access, and    wireless Ethernet services. Our wireless T-1 product is the    wireless equivalent of the traditional, copper or fiber-based    telecommunications connection used to provide broadband    connections to telecommunications end-users, and is capable of    delivering voice, data, and bundled telecommunications services.    Our wireless dedicated Internet access product offers customers    and carriers a wireless solution for converting to an    IP-based
    communications environment. Our wireless Ethernet services take    advantage of the burstability of data to provide cost efficient,    higher bandwidth services to customers premises in the native    protocol driving most customer LANs. Finally, due to the nature    of wireless connections, we can provision these services in any    combination, and make efficient modifications to our products to    meet customers' needs.
 
    We anticipate focusing on the development of our Wireless    Business following the consummation of the Wireline Sale. Our    Wireless Business is in an early stage of development, and has    not had significant historic revenues or operations. As of    February 28, 2006, we have approximately 32 employees in    our Wireless Business.
 
    We believe our wireless services offer several benefits to our    customers.
 
    Network Deployment Speed
.

  The    construction of new wireline networks is costly and time    consuming. Even in high growth areas upgrading wireline networks    with additional copper or fiber facilities involves extensive    resources including outside plant personnel, cabling, conduits,    municipal permits, street closures, etc. The result is a    lengthy, resource intensive effort to construct new facilities.    The construction of fixed wireless networks requires no need to    dig up streets, construct conduit systems, or bury cables. We    believe our remote site installations significantly reduce the    time to deploy and upgrade communications networks. We believe    that growth in demand for wireless bandwidth will drive mobile    wireless carriers to augment their network capacity and    geographic scope over the next five years.
 
    Network Reach
.

   We believe our    broadband fixed wireless products remove a large hurdle to metro    Ethernet and private line services: last mile fiber availability    (network reach). The delivery of Ethernet services in metro    areas has historically required a broadband, fiber-based    connection. Our products are capable of delivering Ethernet    services, removing the need for fiber on-net buildings as well    as the ILEC transport services.
 
    Service Installation and    Upgrades
.

  We believe our products offer    timing and cost advantages over fiber-based products in the    context of installation and modification of those products. As    compared to installing a new fiber service where a fiber    connection does not currently exist, we believe we will be able    to
        13
Table of Contents

    complete the installation of our fixed wireless products in    significantly less time. Even in the context of modifying    existing services, we believe our products enable the    enhancement or removal of services more quickly than most ILECs.
 
    Price
.

   We believe our products    compete favorably on price versus other transport alternatives.    For example, we believe our ability to deliver wireless Ethernet    services enables us to price our products to take advantage of    lower equipment price points available for Ethernet equipment,    and the ubiquitous presence of Ethernet applications in customer    LANs.
 
    Familiar Technology
.

  Our    products support the delivery of telecommunications services    utilizing high capacity, Ethernet protocols. Because of the    ubiquity of Ethernet protocols in the proprietary networks of    business consumers of telecommunications services, we believe    that our solutions will enable our customers, who are    telecommunications carriers, to market more technologically    streamlined products to their end users because our products    enable the delivery of Ethernet services directly to end-users    without the need for conversion of that traffic into more    traditional, lower-bandwidth telecommunications protocols.
 
    Wireless    Spectrum Assets


 
    We hold 91 licenses to the Local Multipoint Distribution    Services, or LMDS, wireless spectrum (27.5 to 31.3 GHz) and    ten 39 GHz licenses. These holdings cover approximately 95%    of the population in the thirty largest markets in the    U.S. The table below reflects (i) the license number,    (ii) the metropolitan areas covered by the license,    (iii) the estimated population for each area, and    (iv) the amount of spectrum for each area.
 
     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	
    License    


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    B    


 
 
    39 GHz    


 
 
    License    


 

    Number



 
    City



 
    State


 
    Population


 
 
    A Band


 
    Band


 
 
    Chanls


 
 
    Renewal


 

 

    WPOL286    


 
    New York (PMSA of 5    boroughs &    3 counties)    


 
    NY    

 
 
    8,546,846
 
 
    A3    

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    2/1/2016
    *

    WPLM417    


 
    Atlanta    


 
    GA    

 
 
    3,197,171
 
 
 
 
 
    B
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    6/17/2008
 

    WPLM412    


 
    Austin    


 
    TX    

 
 
    899,361
 
 
 
 
 
    B
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    6/17/2008
 

    WPLM416    


 
    Baltimore    


 
    MD    

 
 
    2,430,563
 
 
 
 
 
    B
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    6/17/2008
 

    WPLM430    


 
    Birmingham    


 
    AL    

 
 
    1,200,336
 
 
    A    

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    6/17/2008
 

    WPLM413    


 
    Boston    


 
    MA    

 
 
    4,133,895
 
 
 
 
 
    B
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    6/17/2008
 

    WPLM418    


 
    Chattanooga    


 
    TN    

 
 
    510,860
 
 
    A    

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    6/17/2008
 

    WPLM405    


 
    Chicago    


 
    IL    

 
 
    8,182,076
 
 
 
 
 
    B
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    6/17/2008
 

    WPLM424    


 
    Cincinnati    


 
    OH    

 
 
    1,990,451
 
 
 
 
 
    B
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    6/17/2008
 

    WPLM422    


 
    Cleveland-Akron    


 
    OH    

 
 
    2,894,133
 
 
 
 
 
    B
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    6/17/2008
 

    WPLM410    


 
    Columbia    


 
    SC    

 
 
    568,754
 
 
    A    

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    6/17/2008
 

    WPLM438    


 
    Columbus    


 
    OH    

 
 
    1,477,891
 
 
 
 
 
    B
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    6/17/2008
 

    WPON926    


 
    Denver    


 
    CO    

 
 
    2,073,952
 
 
    A1(part)    

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    6/17/2008
 

    WPLM408    


 
    Detroit    


 
    MI    

 
 
    4,705,164
 
 
 
 
 
    B
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    6/17/2008
 

    WPLM398    


 
    Hartford    


 
    CT    

 
 
    1,123,678
 
 
 
 
 
    B
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    6/17/2008
 

    WPLM411    


 
    Hickory-Lenoir-Morganton    


 
    NC    

 
 
    292,409
 
 
    A    

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    6/17/2008
 

    WPLM431    


 
    Huntsville    


 
    AL    

 
 
    439,832
 
 
    A    

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    6/17/2008
 

    WPLM435    


 
    Indianapolis    


 
    IN    

 
 
    1,321,911
 
 
 
 
 
    B
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    6/17/2008
 

    WPLM436    


 
    Kansas City    


 
    MO    

 
 
    1,839,569
 
 
 
 
 
    B
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    6/17/2008
 

    WPLM434    


 
    Klamath Falls    


 
    OR    

 
 
    74,566
 
 
 
 
 
    B
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    6/17/2008
 

    WPLM420    


 
    Lakeland-Winterhaven    


 
    FL    

 
 
    405,382
 
 
 
 
 
    B
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    6/17/2008
 

    WPLM429    


 
    Lexington    


 
    KY    

 
 
    816,101
 
 
    A    

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    6/17/2008
 

    WPLM401    


 
    Los Angeles    


 
    CA    

 
 
    14,549,810
 
 
    A    

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    6/17/2008
 

    WPLM428    


 
    Louisville    


 
    KY    

 
 
    1,352,955
 
 
    A    

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    6/17/2008
 

    WPLM423    


 
    Mansfield    


 
    OH    

 
 
    221,514
 
 
 
 
 
    B
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    6/17/2008
 

    WPLM433    


 
    Medford-Grants Pass    


 
    OR    

 
 
    209,038
 
 
 
 
 
    B
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    6/17/2008
 

    WPOH970    


 
    Milwaukee    


 
    WI    

 
 
    1,751,525
 
 
    A    

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    6/17/2008
 


        14
Table of Contents

     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	
    License    


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    B    


 
 
    39 GHz    


 
 
    License    


 

    Number



 
    City



 
    State


 
    Population


 
 
    A Band


 
    Band


 
 
    Chanls


 
 
    Renewal


 

 

    WPLM419    


 
    Minneapolis-St. Paul    


 
    MN    

 
 
    2,840,561
 
 
    A    

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    6/17/2008
 

    WPOH945    


 
    New Haven-Waterbury-Meriden    


 
    CT    

 
 
    978,311
 
 
 
 
 
    B
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    6/17/2008
 

    WPLM400    


 
    New London-Norwich    


 
    CT    

 
 
    357,482
 
 
 
 
 
    B
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    6/17/2008
 

    WPLM397    


 
    New York (whole BTA)    


 
    NY    

 
 
    18,050,615
 
 
 
 
 
    B
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    6/17/2008
 

    WPLM421    


 
    Ocala    


 
    FL    

 
 
    194,833
 
 
 
 
 
    B
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    6/17/2008
 

    WPLM432    


 
    Portland    


 
    OR    

 
 
    1,690,930
 
 
    A    

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    6/17/2008
 

    WPOH956    


 
    Providence-Pawtucket, New    Bedford-    Fall River    


 
    RI,MA    

 
 
    1,509,789
 
 
    A    

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    6/17/2008
 

    WPLM437    


 
    Rochester    


 
    NY    

 
 
    1,118,963
 
 
 
 
 
    B
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    6/17/2008
 

    WPLM407    


 
    Sacramento    


 
    CA    

 
 
    1,656,581
 
 
    A    

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    6/17/2008
 

    WPLM402    


 
    San Diego    


 
    CA    

 
 
    2,498,016
 
 
 
 
 
    B
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    6/17/2008
 

    WPLM406    


 
    San Francisco-Oakland-San Jose    


 
    CA    

 
 
    6,420,984
 
 
 
 
 
    B
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    6/17/2008
 

    WPLM404    


 
    San Luis Obispo    


 
    CA    

 
 
    217,162
 
 
    A    

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    6/17/2008
 

    WPLM403    


 
    Santa Barbara-Santa Maria    


 
    CA    

 
 
    369,608
 
 
    A    

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    6/17/2008
 

    WPLM427    


 
    Seattle-Tacoma    


 
    WA    

 
 
    2,708,949
 
 
    A    

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    6/17/2008
 

    WPLM425    


 
    St. Louis    


 
    MO    

 
 
    2,742,114
 
 
 
 
 
    B
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    6/17/2008
 

    WPLM409    


 
    Toledo    


 
    OH    

 
 
    782,184
 
 
 
 
 
    B
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    6/17/2008
 

    WPLM415    


 
    Washington    


 
    DC    

 
 
    4,118,628
 
 
 
 
 
    B
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    6/17/2008
 

    WPOH677    


 
    Albuquerque    


 
    NM    

 
 
    688,612
 
 
    A    

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    9/1/2008
 

    WPOH679    


 
    El Paso    


 
    TX    

 
 
    649,860
 
 
    A    

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    9/1/2008
 

    WPOH676    


 
    Tucson    


 
    AZ    

 
 
    666,880
 
 
    A    

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    9/1/2008
 

    WPOH683    


 
    Lawton-Duncan    


 
    OK    

 
 
    177,830
 
 
    A    

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    9/1/2008
 

    WPOH682    


 
    Oklahoma City    


 
    OK    

 
 
    1,305,472
 
 
    A    

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    9/1/2008
 

    WPOH684    


 
    Omaha    


 
    NE    

 
 
    905,991
 
 
    A    

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    9/1/2008
 

    WPOH676    


 
    Tulsa    


 
    OK    

 
 
    836,559
 
 
    A    

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    9/1/2008
 

    WPOH944    


 
    Albany-Schenectady    


 
    NY    

 
 
    1,028,615
 
 
    A    

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    10/6/2008
 

    WPOH963    


 
    Atlanta    


 
    GA    

 
 
    3,197,171
 
 
    A    

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    10/6/2008
 

    WPOH954    


 
    Austin    


 
    TX    

 
 
    899,361
 
 
    A    

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    10/6/2008
 

    WPOH962    


 
    Baltimore    


 
    MD    

 
 
    2,430,563
 
 
    A    

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    10/6/2008
 

    WPOH955    


 
    Boston    


 
    MA    

 
 
    4,133,895
 
 
    A    

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    10/6/2008
 

    WPOH955    


 
    Buffalo-Niagara Falls    


 
    NY    

 
 
    1,231,795
 
 
    A    

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    10/6/2008
 

    WPOH950    


 
    Charlotte-Gastonia    


 
    NC    

 
 
    1,671,037
 
 
    A    

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    10/6/2008
 

    WPOH948    


 
    Chicago    


 
    IL    

 
 
    8,182,076
 
 
    A    

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    10/6/2008
 

    WPOH953    


 
    Dallas    


 
    TX    

 
 
    4,329,924
 
 
    A    

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    10/6/2008
 

    WPOH975    


 
    Des Moines    


 
    IA    

 
 
    728,830
 
 
    A    

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    10/6/2008
 

    WPOH949    


 
    Detroit    


 
    MI    

 
 
    4,705,164
 
 
    A    

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    10/6/2008
 

    WPOH952    


 
    Greenville-Spartanburg    


 
    NC    

 
 
    788,212
 
 
    A    

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    10/6/2008
 

    WPOH943    


 
    Hartford    


 
    CT    

 
 
    1,123,678
 
 
    A    

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    10/6/2008
 

    WPOH966    


 
    Houston    


 
    TX    

 
 
    4,054,253
 
 
    A    

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    10/6/2008
 

    WPOH974    


 
    Indianapolis    


 
    IN    

 
 
    1,321,911
 
 
    A    

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    10/6/2008
 

    WPOH979    


 
    Jacksonville    


 
    FL    

 
 
    1,114,847
 
 
    A    

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    10/6/2008
 

    WPOH981    


 
    Knoxville    


 
    TN    

 
 
    948,055
 
 
    A    

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    10/6/2008
 

    WPOH947    


 
    Los Angeles    


 
    CA    

 
 
    14,549,810
 
 
 
 
 
    B
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    10/6/2008
 

    WPOH959    


 
    Manchester-Nashua-Concord    


 
    NH    

 
 
    540,704
 
 
    A    

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    10/6/2008
 

    WPOH973    


 
    Memphis    


 
    TN    

 
 
    1,396,390
 
 
    A    

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    10/6/2008
 

    WPOH967    


 
    Miami-Ft. Lauderdale    


 
    FL    

 
 
    3,270,606
 
 
    A    

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    10/6/2008
 

    WPLM426    


 
    Milwaukee    


 
    WI    

 
 
    1,751,525
 
 
 
 
 
    B
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    10/6/2008
 


    15
Table of Contents

     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	
    License    


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    B    


 
 
    39 GHz    


 
 
    License    


 

    Number



 
    City



 
    State


 
    Population


 
 
    A Band


 
    Band


 
 
    Chanls


 
 
    Renewal


 

 

    WPOH964    


 
    Minneapolis-St. Paul    


 
    MN    

 
 
    2,840,561
 
 
 
 
 
    B
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    10/6/2008
 

    WPOH980    


 
    Nashville    


 
    TN    

 
 
    1,429,309
 
 
    A    

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    10/6/2008
 

    WPLM399    


 
    New Haven-Waterbury-Meriden    


 
    CT    

 
 
    978,311
 
 
    A    

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    10/6/2008
 

    WPOH942    


 
    New York (unencumbered by PMSA)    


 
    NY    

 
 
    9,503,769
 
 
    A    

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    10/6/2008
 

    WPOH960    


 
    Philadelphia, Wilmington (DE),    Trenton (NJ)    


 
    PA    

 
 
    5,899,345
 
 
    A    

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    10/6/2008
 

    WPOH971    


 
    Pittsburgh    


 
    PA    

 
 
    2,507,839
 
 
    A    

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    10/6/2008
 

    WPLM414    


 
    Providence-Pawtucket, New    Bedford-    Fall River    


 
    RI,MA    

 
 
    1,509,789
 
 
 
 
 
    B
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    10/6/2008
 

    WPOH951    


 
    Raleigh-Durham    


 
    NC    

 
 
    1,089,423
 
 
    A    

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    10/6/2008
 

    WPOH972    


 
    Richmond-Petersburg    


 
    VA    

 
 
    1,090,869
 
 
    A    

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    10/6/2008
 

    WPOH978    


 
    Rochester    


 
    NY    

 
 
    1,118,963
 
 
    A    

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    10/6/2008
 

    WPOH976    


 
    San Antonio    


 
    TX    

 
 
    1,530,954
 
 
    A    

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    10/6/2008
 

    WPOH958    


 
    Springfield-Holyoke    


 
    MA    

 
 
    672,970
 
 
    A    

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    10/6/2008
 

    WPOH969    


 
    St. Louis    


 
    MO    

 
 
    2,742,114
 
 
    A    

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    10/6/2008
 

    WPOH946    


 
    Syracuse    


 
    NY    

 
 
    791,140
 
 
    A    

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    10/6/2008
 

    WPOH965    


 
    Tampa-St. Petersburg-Clearwater    


 
    FL    

 
 
    2,249,405
 
 
    A    

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    10/6/2008
 

    WPOH961    


 
    Washington    


 
    DC    

 
 
    4,118,628
 
 
    A    

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    10/6/2008
 

    WPOH968    


 
    West Palm Beach-Boca Raton    


 
    FL    

 
 
    893,145
 
 
    A    

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    10/6/2008
 

    WPOH957    


 
    Worcester-Fitchburg-Leominster    


 
    MA    

 
 
    709,705
 
 
    A    

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    10/6/2008
 

    WPQT938    


 
    Denver-Boulder-Greeley    


 
    CO    

 
 
    2,073,952
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    B
 
 
 
    10/18/2010
 

    WPQT942    


 
    Las Vegas    


 
    NV    

 
 
    857,856
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    E
 
 
 
    10/18/2010
 

    WPQT946    


 
    Las Vegas    


 
    NV    

 
 
    857,856
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    G
 
 
 
    10/18/2010
 

    WPQT939    


 
    San Diego    


 
    CA    

 
 
    2,498,016
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    B
 
 
 
    10/18/2010
 

    WPQT944    


 
    San Diego    


 
    CA    

 
 
    2,498,016
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    F
 
 
 
    10/18/2010
 

    WPQT947    


 
    San Diego    


 
    CA    

 
 
    2,498,016
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    N
 
 
 
    10/18/2010
 

    WPQT940    


 
    San Francisco    


 
    CA    

 
 
    6,420,984
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    D
 
 
 
    10/18/2010
 

    WPQT945    


 
    San Francisco    


 
    CA    

 
 
    6,420,984
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    F
 
 
 
    10/18/2010
 

    WPQT941    


 
    Toledo    


 
    OH    

 
 
    782,184
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    E
 
 
 
    10/18/2010
 

    WPQT943    


 
    Toledo    


 
    OH    

 
 
    782,184
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    F
 
 
 
    10/18/2010
 



 
    Legend    



 
    
    
    

        A 
    
        27,500 to 28,350 MHz, 29,100 to 29,250 GHz, 31,075 to    31,225 GHz = 1,150 MHz

 

        A1 
    
        27,500 to 28,350 MHz = 850 MHz

 

        A3 
    
        31,075 to 31,225 GHz = 150 MHz

 

        B 
    
        31,000 to 31,075 MHz, 31,225 to 31,300 MHz =    150 MHz

 

        39 GHz B 
    
        38,650 to 38,700 MHz, 39,350 to 39,400 = 100 MHz

 

        39 GHz E 
    
        38,800 to 38,850 MHz, 39,500 to 39,550 = 100 MHz

 

        39 GHz G 
    
        38,900 to 38,950 MHz, 39,600 to 39,650 = 100 MHz

 

        39 GHz F 
    
        38,850 to 38,900 MHz, 39,550 to 39,600 = 100 MHz

 

        39 GHz N 
    
        39,250 to 39,300 MHz, 39,950 to 40,000 = 100 MHz

 

        39 GHz D 
    
        38,750 to 38,800 MHz, 39,450 to 39,500 = 100 MHz


 
    The higher the frequency, the higher the attenuation (loss). For    the same amount of transmission power, a lower frequency signal    will propagate farther.
    16
Table of Contents

    
    

        * 
        Our A3 Band Licenses in New York City was renewed by the FCC    during the first quarter of 2006 through February 2016, however,    the FCC did not extend the deadline for completing the    facilities construction requirements for that license, which    remains March 2007. Consequently, we may relinquish our rights    in the our New York City A3 band license if we do not meet the    March 2007 construction deadlines, notwithstanding the    FCC's extension of our license term through February 2016.


 
    The term of the licenses for our broadband wireless spectrum    generally is ten years. Although the licenses are renewable for    an additional ten year term, renewal is conditioned on our    ability to satisfy construction requirements established by the    FCC.
 
    Wireless    Network Overview


 
    Overview.

  We deploy fixed wireless    point-to-multipoint
    and    point-to-point
    networks to provide wireless broadband connectivity in our    markets. Our networks also incorporate encryption and    authentication technologies to protect information privacy.
 
    Network Architecture.

  We describe the    design of our primary network deployment as an “aggregation    network.” This means that we design our networks to collect    telecommunications traffic from a large number of sites,    aggregate that traffic at a single location while maintaining    the integrity and quality of the multiple signals, and    delivering the resulting larger stream of aggregated traffic to    terrestrial, fiber-based networks for distribution across the    country. Our networks are also capable of separating large    streams of telecommunications traffic and delivering signals as    appropriate to multiple locations within an operating region    from a single site. We describe the deployment of our products    in aggregation networks as “middle mile” solutions for    telecommunications service providers. Additionally, we provide    “last mile” high bandwidth data solutions for    end-users.
 
    We execute our network design by deploying network architecture    of microwave radios placed at clients' locations, centered    around our strategically selected hub locations. The hub base    stations will transmit to and receive signals from wireless    equipment at multiple customer premises, allowing transmissions    between multiple customer antennas and a single base station    antenna. Each hub station is capable of serving customers in our    target mobile wireless backhaul, network facilities replacement,    and enterprise and government markets. Our    point-to-multipoint
    hubs have an average service radius of between three to seven    miles, depending on a number of factors such as power levels    used, local weather environment, and terrain. We believe our    typical market will require between six and nine hubs to service    customers in the mobile wireless backhaul market, although    additional hubs may be required to service the largest markets.
        17
Table of Contents

    Below is a diagram of a typical LMDS network architecture.
 
    
 
    Fixed Wireless Spectrum    Performance.

  Our products are delivered    through our exclusively licensed LMDS fixed wireless spectrum.    The properties of our LMDS spectrum allow us to deliver voice    and data connectivity to our customers at rates of up to 622    megabits per second, or Mbps, providing them access to high    bandwidth applications. In addition, unlike the spectrum    deployed by many other fixed wireless providers, our LMDS    spectrum allows point to multipoint applications, making our    products useful in the deployment of aggregation, or    “middle-mile”
    networks.
 
    Unlike other, lower frequencies, however, signals transmission    via our LMDS spectrum will not generally penetrate trees, walls,    glass or other path-obstructing materials. We address    line-of-sight
    challenges by installing intermediate sites to overcome    significant transmission obstacles. Such solutions are generally    sufficient for marketing our products to telecommunications    carriers who sell directly to end-users; however, due to the    line-of-sight
    challenges of our LMDS spectrum and the complexity of    installation, billing, and care of end-user customers, we do not    have any immediate plans to market our products to retail    end-users, other than as a network redundancy or LAN connection    solution.
        18
Table of Contents

    Below is a map indicating the geographic extent of our LMDS    licenses.
 
    
 
    Wireless Network Equipment.

  We have the    ability to source key network components from a number of    equipment vendors. After evaluating competing products of    several vendors for LMDS equipment, in May 2005, we entered into    a sourcing arrangement with a large equipment vendor. The    pricing of fixed wireless communications equipment has decreased    significantly in recent years, enabling more cost-effective    deployment than in the past.
 
    Network Services.

  We deliver our    wireless services through our single network services and    customer care organizations. Following the closing of the    Wireline Sale, we anticipate that we will rely on an interim    basis on the network services and customer care personnel of XO    LLC pursuant to transitionary arrangements between the two    companies. In the near term, we believe that we will either    develop proprietary network services and customer care    organizations, or outsource those functions to third party    providers.
 
    Wireless Sales.

  We employ a small    direct sales force selling wholesale fixed wireless services to    targeted carrier customers. Our sales force currently focuses on    telecommunications service providers. We believe that this sales    strategy allows us to concentrate our sales efforts on customers    for whom our products offer immediate, large-scale operational    and financial value within operating markets. As we complete    sales and implementation with such mobile wireless customers, we    plan to augment our marketing efforts in those
        19
Table of Contents

    geographic local transport and network expansion markets. We    occasionally supplement the efforts of our direct sales team    with indirect sales agents.
 
    Competition


 
    The market for fixed broadband wireless services is emerging,    and we compete with both wireless and wireline    telecommunications providers.
 
    ILECs.

  The ILECs (especially Verizon,    AT&T, BellSouth and Qwest) are the incumbents and have    predominant market shares in the types of services that we offer    through our wireless business. The ILECs have numerous    competitive advantages, including long standing relationships    with their customers, comprehensive network footprints within    their regions, established relationships with wireless carriers    in-region, brand recognition, significant financial and    managerial resources, and regulatory influence. The ILECs rely,    however, on a network that includes a mix of both fiber and    copper facilities. As a result, in many cases, the ILECs would    be required to replace existing copper lines with fiber    facilities if the ILECs were to meet the anticipated additional    capacity requirements of mobile telecommunications carriers. We    believe that the ILECs, which focus primarily on the end-user    markets, will be hesitant to incur the expense of replacing    copper lines with fiber solely to deliver capacity to mobile    wireless carriers. We therefore believe that we can leverage the    deployment and cost advantages of our products to compete with    the ILECs in our wireless communications business.
 
    Competitive Carriers.

  We also compete    with facilities-based, competitive carriers that operate    fiber-based networks. In major metropolitan areas, many    competitive carriers have deployed local assets that can provide    network capacity particularly competitive with our    point-to-point
    dedicated and dynamic bandwidth products. We also compete with    our own customers, who may decide to incur the costs and    managerial responsibilities associated with deploying    proprietary facilities themselves rather than purchasing our own    services.
 
    Unlike the ILECs, the competitive carriers who have constructed    local facilities have deployed high-capacity fiber. Many of    these carriers, however, face continued pricing and other    competitive pressures in the market place, and none has    dedicated itself to providing local network capacity to other    telecommunications carriers. In addition, none of the    competitive carriers has the ubiquitous network of the in-region    ILEC, and we would anticipate competing with competitive    carriers only in selected markets and with respect to specific    network routes. Also, very few competitive carriers, other than    ILECs operating    out-of-region,
    possess the financial resources necessary to construct    significant additional network facilities in the near future. We    therefore believe that we can leverage our ability to rapidly    deploy and scale our products to compete with competitive    carriers.
 
    Fixed Wireless Carriers.

  There are a    number of fixed wireless carriers delivering products that    compete with our own. First, there are two companies, First    Avenue Networks, or FRNS, and IDT Spectrum, or IDT, capable of    delivering aggregation network products based on a    point-to-multipoint
    delivery platform similar to our own. We believe that our    product delivery and network services relationships with    carriers such as XO LLC will allow us to provide complete,    end-to-end
    aggregation network products that carry customer traffic from    origination to a point of entry onto a terrestrial fiber    network. We believe this    end-to-end
    capability presents both a marketing and service delivery    advantage that few other fixed wireless competitors can offer at    a price competitive to our products.
 
    Second, there are other carriers, such as Fiber Tower, who    deliver    point-to-point
    wireless connections over varying distances, which connections    compete with both our aggregation network and    point-to-point
    products.
 
    Proprietary Deployment.
  We face competition    from our target customers, who typically decide between    deploying proprietary network assets or purchasing outsourced,    turn-key solutions, such as our products. In our mobile wireless    backhaul markets, our experience has been that our customers    deploy a combination of proprietary,    point-to-point
    wireless connections, on the one hand, and outsourced,    aggregation network products provided by third parties, like us,    on the other hand.
        20
Table of Contents

    Deployment    of Other Wireless Technologies


 
    While we plan to focus our Wireless Business on the delivery of    our network solutions to telecommunications carriers, we also    plan to explore other Line of Sight and Non-Line of Sight, or    NLOS, licensed and non-licensed spectrum opportunities. Recent    technology innovations, such as WiMax, may provide significant    opportunities for wireless last mile solutions. These    technologies leverage the advantages of IP centric    communications and should be highly complementary to new    services such as VoIP. We view the potential use of these    technologies as synergistic to our deployment of services using    our LMDS assets. Combining a higher speed last mile solution    with the high-capacity aggregation capabilities of LMDS has the    potential to offer new and existing telecommunications carriers    a robust market entry/network augmentation opportunity.
 
    Regulatory    Overview


 
    We offer wireline and wireless communications services to small    and medium business, wireline and wireless telecommunications    providers, large enterprises and government agencies. We are    therefore subject to regulation by federal, state and local    government agencies. Historically, the Federal Communications    Commission, or FCC, had jurisdiction over interstate long    distance services and international services, while state    regulatory commissions had jurisdiction over local and    intrastate long distance services. The Telecommunications Act of    1996, or the Telecom Act, fundamentally changed the way    telecommunications is regulated in this country. The FCC was    given a major role in writing and enforcing the rules under    which new competitors could compete in the local marketplace.    Those rules, coupled with additional rules and decisions    promulgated by the various state regulatory commissions, form    the core of the regulatory framework under which we operate in    providing our services.
 
    With a few limited exceptions, the FCC continues to retain    exclusive jurisdiction over our provision of interstate and    international long distance services, and the state regulatory    commissions regulate our provision of intrastate local and long    distance services. Additionally, municipalities and other local    government agencies may regulate limited aspects of our    business, such as use of government-owned    rights-of-way,
    and may require permits such as zoning approvals and building    permits.
 
    The Telecom Act and the related rules governing competition    issued by the FCC, as well as pro-competitive policies already    developed by state regulatory commissions, have enabled    competitive carriers like us to capture a portion of the    ILECs' market share of local services. However, to date,    the ILECs have succeeded in eliminating some of the    market-opening regulations adopted by the FCC and the states    through numerous court challenges.
 
    Since the passage of the Telecom Act there has been an    accelerated growth of the Internet and IP communications.    Congress is currently considering whether to further amend the    Telecom Act to, among other things, directly address certain    issues, such as universal service funding and E911 service, that    are increasingly impacted by the rapid growth of IP    communications. It is possible that any such amendment to the    Telecom Act could eliminate or materially alter the    market-opening regulatory framework of the Telecom Act in    general, and the UNE regime in particular. Such a result could    adversely affect our business. It is not possible to predict if,    when, or how the Telecom Act will be amended.
 
    Federal    Regulation


 
    The FCC exercises jurisdiction over our telecommunications    facilities and services. We have authority from the FCC for the    installation, acquisition and operation of our wireline network    facilities to provide facilities-based domestic interstate and    international services. In addition, we have obtained FCC    authorizations for the operation of our LMDS and 39 GHz    broadband wireless facilities. Because we are not dominant in    any of our markets, unlike ILECs, we are not subject to price    cap or rate of return regulation. Thus, our pricing policies for    interstate and international end user services are only subject    to the federal guidelines that charges for such services be    just, reasonable, and non-discriminatory. The FCC allows us to    file interstate tariffs for our interstate access services    (rates charged by us to other carriers for access to our    network). As for domestic interstate and international long    distance services, the FCC requires us to make the terms,    conditions and rates
        21
Table of Contents

    of the detariffed services available to the public on XO's    web page, and such terms, conditions, and rates are located at    http://www.xo.com/legal/.
 
    Implementation    of the Telecom Act


 
    The    Telecom Act's Local Competition Framework



 
    One of the key goals of the Telecom Act is to encourage    competition in the provision of local telephone service.
 
    The following is a summary of the interconnection and other    requirements imposed by the Telecom Act that are important for    effective local service competition:
 
    
    
    

     
        • 
        interconnection with the networks of incumbents and other    carriers, which permits our customers to exchange traffic with    customers connected to other networks;

 

     
        • 
        requirements that the ILECs make available access to UNEs,    including local loops and transport at prices based upon their    forward-looking economic costs, thereby enabling us to serve    customers not directly connected to our networks;

 

     
        • 
        compensation obligations, which mandate reciprocal payment    arrangements for local traffic exchange between us and both    incumbent and other competitive carriers and compensation for    terminating local traffic originating on other carriers'    networks;

 

     
        • 
        requirements concerning local number portability, which allows    customers to change local carriers without changing telephone    numbers, thereby removing a significant barrier for a potential    customer to switch to our local voice services;

 

     
        • 
        access to assignment of telephone numbers, which enables us to    provide telephone numbers to new customers on the same basis as    incumbent carriers;

 

     
        • 
        requirements that ILECs permit CLECs to purchase their services    for resale to the public at a wholesale rate that is less than    the rate charged by the ILECs to their retail customers and

 

     
        • 
        collocation rights allowing us to place telecommunications    equipment in ILEC central offices, which enables us to have    direct access to local loops and other network elements.


 
    When requested by competitors, ILECs are required to negotiate,    in good faith, agreements that set forth terms governing many of    these requirements, including the interconnection of their    network, access to UNEs, and resale. We have negotiated    interconnection agreements with the ILECs in each of the markets    in which we operate. Some of these interconnection agreements    are currently being renegotiated.
 
    Although the rights established in the Telecom Act are a    necessary prerequisite to the introduction of full local    competition, they must be properly implemented and enforced to    permit competitive telephone companies like XO to compete    effectively with the incumbent carriers. Discussed below are    several FCC and court proceedings relating to the application of    certain FCC rules and policies that are significant to and    directly impact our operations and costs as well as the nature    and scope of industry competition.
 
    Unbundling    of Incumbent Network Elements



 
    In a series of orders and related court challenges that date    back to 1996, the FCC has promulgated rules implementing the    market-opening provisions of the Telecom Act, including the    requirement that the ILECs lease UNEs to competitors at    cost-based rates. At the core of the series of FCC orders is the    FCC's evolving effort to define which ILEC network    facilities must be made available as UNEs. Initially, the FCC    defined a broad list of UNEs, consisting of most of the elements    of the ILECs' networks. Under pressure from the ILECs, the    FCC has subsequently reduced the list, while preserving access    to those network elements critical to the operation of XO's    business.
 
    The current list of UNEs was promulgated by the FCC in two    orders. The first is the Triennial Review Order, or TRO, which    was released on August 21, 2003. Several carriers and other    entities appealed the FCC's
        22
Table of Contents

    TRO decision. On March 2, 2004, the U.S. Court of    Appeals for the D.C. Circuit issued its opinion in United States    Telecom Association v. FCC,    No. 00-1012
    (“USTA II Decision”). In the USTA II    Decision, the court reversed and overturned many of the    conclusions of the TRO. In the aftermath of the USTA II    Decision, the FCC released the second of its two currently    controlling orders, the TRRO, on February 4, 2005. Various    parties, including XO, have appealed the TRRO. The case is    currently pending before the United States Court of Appeals for    the D.C. Circuit. It is not possible to predict the outcome of    those appeals. It is possible that portions of the TRRO could be    overturned and that the FCC will issue new rules in their place    that further restrict access to UNEs. In addition to the court    challenges, several parties, including XO, have petitioned the    FCC to reconsider various aspects of the TRRO. It is not    possible to predict when or how the FCC will rule with respect    to those reconsideration petitions.
 
    As of March 11, 2005, the effective date of the TRRO, the    ILECs are obligated to provide as UNEs in certain geographic    areas the following network facilities used by XO to serve its    customers:
 
    UNE    Loops


 
    DS0 loops.
  A DS0 loop is a single, voice-grade    channel. Typically, individual business lines are DS0 loops. The    ILECs must make DS0 loops available at UNE rates on an unlimited    basis.
 
    DS1 loops.
  A DS1 loop is a digital loop with a    total speed of 1.544 megabytes per second, which is the    equivalent of 24 DS0 circuits. Multiple voice lines and Internet    access can be provided to a customer over a single DS1 loop. We    provide most of our service with DS1 loops. The ILECs must    provide DS1 loops at UNE rates at the majority of their central    offices. Competitors, however, are limited to no more than 10    DS1 loops to any particular building.
 
    DS3 loops.
  A DS3 loop is a digital loop with a    total speed of 44.736 megabytes per second, which is the    equivalent of 28 DS1 circuits. In some cases, XO serves its    large business customers with DS3 loops. ILECs must provide DS3    loops at UNE rates at the majority of their central offices.    Competitors, however, are limited to no more than one DS3 loop    at UNE rates to any particular building.
 
    ILECs are not required to provide optical capacity loops or dark    fiber loops as UNEs. Optical capacity loops, referred to as OCn    loops, are very high-capacity digital loops ranging in capacity    from OC3 loops, which are the equivalent of three DS3s to OC192.    This will not impact our costs.
 
    The ILECs are also not required to provide certain mass market    broadband loop facilities and functionality as UNEs. Under the    TRO, the ILECs are not required to make newly-deployed    fiber-to-the-premise,
    or FTTP, [checking with Brad to see if we need to make this    fiber-to-the
    premise] loops available as UNEs and are only required to    provide the equivalent of DS0 capacity on any FTTP loop built    over an existing copper loop. These recent FCC orders should    only limit availability for those specific broadband network    elements, which are not material to us. It is possible, however,    that the ILECs will seek additional broadband regulatory relief    in future proceedings.
 
    UNE    Transport


 
    DS1 transport.
  Whether transport is available    as a UNE is determined on a    route-by-route
    basis. ILECs must make transport at UNE rates available at DS1    capacity levels between any two ILEC central offices unless both    central offices either (1) serve more than 38,000 business    lines or (2) have four or more fiber-based collocators. On    routes where DS1 transport must be made available, each    individual competitor is limited to no more than 10 DS1    transport circuits at UNE rates per route.
 
    DS3 transport.
  Access to DS3 capacity-level    transport is more limited than access to DS1 transport. ILECs    must make transport at UNE rates available at DS3 capacity    levels between any two ILEC central offices unless both central    offices either (1) serve more than 24,000 business lines or    (2) have three or more fiber-based collocators. On routes    where DS3 transport must be made available, each individual    competitor is limited to no more than 12 DS1 transport circuits    at UNE rates per route.
 
    Dark fiber transport.
  Dark fiber transport is    available under the same conditions as DS3 transport.
        23
Table of Contents

    ILECs are not required to provide access to UNE transport at    greater-than DS3 capacity levels. ILECs are also not required to    provide dark fiber transport at any capacity level to connect an    ILEC central office with a competitor's facilities.
 
    Transitional availability where elements are no longer    available as UNEs.
  For DS1, DS3, and dark fiber    loops and transport provided in ILEC central offices that do not    meet the criteria for UNE availability set forth in the TRRO,    the FCC established a transitional period during which the ILECs    must continue to make the elements available at UNE rates to    serve existing customers in impacted central offices. For DS1    and DS3 loops and transport, the ILECs were required to make the    elements available at 115% of the total element long run    incremental cost (“TELRIC”) rate for one year    beginning on March 11, 2005. For dark fiber loops and    transport, the ILECs were required to make the elements    available at 115% of the TELRIC rate in impacted central offices    for 18 months beginning on March 11, 2005.
 
    Although these rules adopted by the FCC in the TRRO became    effective on March 11, 2005, many of the requirements    imposed by the FCC in the TRO and TRRO were not self-executing.    Accordingly, the FCC made clear that carriers must follow the    change of law procedures in their applicable interconnection    agreements with ILECs to implement any TRO requirements that are    not self-executing and that carriers must follow the procedures    set forth in Section 252(b) of the Telecom Act to modify    interconnection agreements that are silent as to implementation    of changes in law. We have been in negotiations with ILECs to    amend our interconnection agreements to implement relevant TRO    and TRRO requirements and, to date, have executed amendments in    many states. In addition, we have been in negotiations with    ILECs to reach commercial agreements that will facilitate our    purchase of certain facilities that are no longer available as    UNEs as a result of the TRRO and, to date, have executed such    agreements covering a number of states.
 
    FCC    Regulation of Wireless Services


 
    We are the licensee of authorizations issued by the Federal    Communications Commission (“FCC”) in the Local    Multipoint Distribution Service (“LMDS”) and in the    39 GHz services. As an FCC licensee, we are subject to    extensive regulatory oversight, including limits on the amount    of foreign investment in certain FCC licenses, the transfer and    assignment of FCC licenses, and regulations governing the    construction, technical aspects and the nature of services that    can be provided by operators of wireless communications systems.    The FCC regulates the use of the electromagnetic spectrum, and    has exclusive jurisdiction over licensing and technical rules    governing the operation of wireless services. Under certain    circumstances, our licenses may be conditioned, forfeited or    canceled.
 
    Also, because certain wireless services we provide are likely to    be considered interstate in nature, we also are likely subject    to the FCC's jurisdiction in our provision of such    services. The FCC has exclusive jurisdiction over the provision    of interstate telecommunications services whether or not those    telecommunications services involve the use of the    electromagnetic spectrum. We are therefore subject to certain    administrative and service related obligations as a    telecommunications carrier regulated by the FCC, and we are    required to pay regulatory fees and expenses. Also, we may be    fined for violations of the FCC's rules.
 
    We use our fixed wireless facilities to provide several other    forms of telecommunications services, some of which may be    considered intrastate, and will therefore likely be subject to    the jurisdiction of state regulatory commissions. Each state may    have unique rules relating to regulatory assessments, reporting    requirements and taxes. States and localities may also impose    zoning regulations, require operating permits, and regulate our    access to    rights-of-way.

 
    These Federal, state, and local regulations change through rule    making proceedings, hearings, and other administrative    proceedings. Future changes or interpretation of these evolving    regulations may have an adverse effect on our fixed wireless    business.
 
    FCC    Regulation of LMDS and 39 GHz Services in    Particular


 
    Generally
.

   The majority of our    FCC licenses cover operations in the LMDS spectrum, although we    hold several FCC licenses in the 39 GHz band. LMDS is one    of the several FCC-licensed services that permit
        24
Table of Contents

    licensees to transmit high capacity wireless broadband traffic    on a    line-of-sight
    (“LOS”) basis (generally, only LOS operations may be    offered today because of how high in the spectrum LMDS    frequencies are situated). Other FCC-licensed services with    high-capacity broadband wireless LOS capabilities include the    24 GHz band and the 39 GHz band. While many entities    hold spectrum in the 24 GHz and 39 GHz bands, the most    significant holders of that spectrum are First Avenue Networks,    Inc. and IDT Spectrum, LLC (purchased from Winstar Holdings,    LLC). There is also spectrum available for licensing to offer    high-capacity wireless broadband services on an LOS basis in    other frequency bands; however, this spectrum can generally only    be licensed on a site-specific basis (each transmit and receive    point are separately authorized).
 
    Performance Requirements
.

   All    of our LMDS and 39 GHz licenses were granted for ten    (10) year terms. The renewal dates for our LMDS licenses    are generally in 2008. The renewal dates for our 39 GHz    licenses are in 2010. In order to secure renewal of our LMDS and    39 GHz licenses, we must generally be in compliance with    all relevant FCC rules, and must demonstrate that we are    providing “substantial service” in our licensed areas.    The FCC defines substantial service as “service which is    sound, favorable, and substantially above a level of mediocre    service which just might minimally warrant renewal.” To    determine if a licensee is providing substantial service, the    FCC will review a licensee's demonstration on a    case-by-case
    basis. The FCC has taken a flexible approach in reviewing    licenses, and has stated that it will consider several factors    when determining whether a fixed wireless licensee has provided    substantial service, including: whether the licensee's    operations serve niche markets or focus on serving populations    outside of areas serviced by other licensees; whether the    licensee's operations serve populations with limited access    to communications services (i.e., rural service areas); and    whether a licensee serves a significant portion of the    population or land area of the licensed area. This list is not    exhaustive and the FCC has noted that substantial service can be    demonstrated in other ways.
 
    The FCC has provided “safe harbor” examples of what    would constitute substantial service for a LMDS and 39 GHz    licensee. For an LMDS licensee that chooses to offer    point-to-multipoint
    services, a demonstration of coverage to twenty percent (20%) of    the population of its licensed area at the ten (10) year    mark would constitute substantial service. In the alternative,    for an LMDS licensee that chooses to offer fixed,    point-to-point
    services, the construction of four (4) permanent links per    one million people in its licensed area would constitute    substantial service. For a 39 GHz licensee, the FCC adopted    the safe harbor of four (4) links per million people within    a service area for a traditional    point-to-point
    service. Because we have FCC spectrum licenses in over    70 U.S. cities, we will be required to make significant    capital expenditures to meet the substantial service tests    associated with such licenses, or enter into spectrum leases in    which third parties construct facilities to meet the substantial    service tests.
 
    The only exception to our 2008 deadlines for demonstrating that    we are providing substantial service through our LMDS licenses    relates to our authorization for the so-called “A3    Block” of LMDS spectrum in eight (8) core counties in    the New York market. That license was renewed by the FCC in    February 2006 and extended through February 2016.    Notwithstanding that extension, we must nonetheless demonstrate    that we are providing substantial service using this license by    March 2007. We submitted a request to the FCC on    January 12, 2005 to extend the deadline for construction of    the facilities authorized by the A3 Block license in New York    until October 2008 to conform to the construction deadline of    all of our other LMDS licenses. This request remains pending    with the FCC.
 
    Assignment, Transfer and Leasing of    Spectrum
.

  Under FCC regulations, we can    permit third parties to use our LMDS or 39 GHz spectrum in    several different ways. First, we can provide service on    facilities we construct to customers as a common carrier or on a    private carrier basis. Second, we can permit others to lease our    spectrum so that these lessees can construct and operate their    own facilities. In this case, we would remain the licensee of    the spectrum, but the lessee would also obtain an authorization    from the FCC. Third, subject to FCC review and approval, we can    assign to third parties some of the spectrum we hold in a    geographic area (e.g., defined as “disaggregation” by    the FCC) or we can assign to third parties our rights to operate    spectrum in a portion of the geographic area over which it is    licensed (e.g., defined as “partitioning” by the FCC).    The FCC also permits simultaneous partitioning and    disaggregation. In the case of assignment, partitioning and    disaggregation, we would relinquish our rights to the spectrum    we assign, partition or disaggregate. If we wish
        25
Table of Contents

    to assign or transfer spectrum, we would be required to seek the    approval, or notify the FCC, of such a transfer or assignment.
 
    Auctions
.

   Since 1994, the FCC    has conducted periodic auctions of licenses for spectrum. The    availability of more spectrum in frequency bands in, or adjacent    to those in which we hold licenses, or other frequency bands    which share similar operating characteristics, could increase    the number of entities with which we compete and could give our    customers an alternative source of spectrum, or could reduce the    value of our spectrum.
 
    Other Issues Affecting the Company's Spectrum    Licenses
.

   The FCC retains the    jurisdiction to implement changes to the regulations that govern    the operation of all wireless services including those we offer    over our LMDS and 39 GHz authorizations. Theses changes may    have a negative impact on our business. Moreover, as demand for    spectrum capacity increases, the FCC may conduct additional    proceedings to permit other licensed or unlicensed equipment to    operate in the same spectrum as our licensed bands. This may    increase potential interference with our fixed wireless    operations and have an adverse effect on our business.
 
    Additional    Federal Regulations


 
    The following discussion summarizes some additional specific    areas of federal regulation that directly affect our business.
 
    VoIP.
  Like a growing number of carriers, we    utilize IP technology for the transmission of a portion of our    network traffic. The regulatory status and treatment of    IP-enabled
    services is unresolved. The FCC has held that Vonage's VoIP    services and similar offerings by other providers are subject to    the FCC's interstate jurisdiction, preempting state efforts    to regulate VoIP providers as intrastate telecommunications    providers. Four separate state commissions have appealed this    ruling and the case is currently pending. The FCC, however, left    open the question of whether VoIP providers provide    “telecommunications”  —  i.e.,    basic transmission services  —  or    enhanced “information services.” Under the    Communications Act of 1934, as amended, or the Communications    Act, those are mutually exclusive categories. Generally,    telecommunications carriers, including traditional local and    long distance telecommunications companies, are regulated under    the Communications Act; information service providers are    generally unregulated. The FCC has initiated a rulemaking    proceeding to address the classification of VoIP and other    IP-enabled
    service offerings. It is not possible to predict the outcome of    that proceeding or its effect on our operations.
 
    AT&T Declaratory Ruling Re: VoIP.
  On    April 21, 2004, the FCC released an order, the AT&T    Order, denying AT&T's request that the FCC find that    certain VoIP “in the middle” services are exempt from    switched access charges. The FCC held that an interexchange    service that uses ordinary customer premises equipment that    originates and terminates on the PSTN that provides no enhanced    functionality, and that undergoes no net protocol conversion, is    a telecommunications service and subject to switched access    charges. The AT&T order apparently places interexchange    services similar to those VoIP “in the middle”    services offered by AT&T in the same regulatory category as    traditional telecommunications services and, therefore,    potentially subjects such VoIP services to access charges and    other regulatory obligations including Universal Service fees.    Although the FCC did not rule on the applicability of access    charges for services provided prior to April 21, 2004, the    ILECs may attempt to assert claims against other    telecommunications companies including us for the retroactive    payment of access charges. On February 4, 2005, SBC amended    an existing collection case it had filed against Global Crossing    seeking retroactive payment of unpaid access charges and filed a    complaint against us. On November 2, 2005, SBC filed a    Notice of Voluntary Dismissal, dismissing us from the Global    Crossing litigation with prejudice. On September 21, 2005,    SBC filed with the FCC a petition for declaratory ruling that    wholesale transmission providers using IP protocol technology to    transport long distance calls that originate and terminate on    the public switched telephone network, or PSTN, are liable for    access charges under the FCC's rules and applicable    tariffs. SBC seeks a ruling that providers meeting these    criteria are interexchange carriers. VarTec had filed a petition    for declaratory ruling on related issues on August 20,    2004. Among other things, VarTec seeks a declaratory ruling that    it is not required to pay access charges to terminating local    exchange carriers when enhanced service providers or other    carriers deliver calls directly to the terminating LECs for    termination. On September  26, the FCC released a    public notice
        26
Table of Contents

    requesting comments on the petitions filed by SBC and VarTec. It    is not possible to predict the outcome of that proceeding or its    effect on our operations. The issue of whether access charges    apply to VoIP and other IP traffic that originates or terminates    on the PSTN is potentially significant for us and other carriers.
 
    ILEC Provision of Broadband Telecommunications Services and    Information Services.
  On September 23, 2005,    the FCC issued its Report and Order and Notice of Proposed    Rulemaking in its Wireline Broadband proceeding. In this Order,    the FCC determined that facilities-based wireline broadband    Internet access service is an information service that is not    subject to Title II regulations imposed on    telecommunication services. The FCC also eliminated any existing    Computer Inquiry requirements on Internet access service.    Facilities-based wireline carriers are permitted to offer    transmission arrangements for wireline broadband Internet access    services (e.g., DSL) on a common carrier basis or a non-common    carrier basis. However, the FCC clarified that the new    regulatory classification of broadband Internet access service    will not impact CLECs' ability to access UNEs under    section 251 of the Act and the FCC's rules.
 
    Intercarrier Compensation Reform.
  Currently,    telecommunications carriers are required to pay other carriers    for interstate access charges and local reciprocal compensation    charges. These two forms of intercarrier compensation have been    under review by the FCC since 2001. The FCC continues to    consider a broad order reforming the intercarrier compensation    system and issued a Notice of Proposed Rulemaking on    February 10, 2005 to seek further comment on intercarrier    compensation reform. Although we are unable to predict the    outcome of the FCC's rulemaking procedures, inasmuch as    access charges and reciprocal compensation payments make up our    largest network expense item, the FCC's action could have a    material, adverse affect on our operations and cost of doing    business.
 
    Cost-based TELRIC Pricing.
  On    September 10, 2003, the FCC initiated a new proceeding to    consider significantly revamping the current TELRIC methodology    used for the pricing of UNEs. If the FCC reverses the    methodology used for determining UNE rates to allow for rate    increases, our costs for leasing UNEs could rise substantially    in the future. Several state commissions have also initiated    proceedings to review the rates that the ILECs charge for UNEs.    An adverse ruling in these proceedings would allow the ILECs to    increase UNE rates in the applicable state and this could    substantially raise our costs for leasing UNEs in the future.
 
    VoIP 911 Regulation.
  On June 3, 2005, the    FCC imposed 911 regulations on “interconnected VoIP    services,” which are defined as any service that:    (1) enables real-time, two-way voice communications;    (2) requires a broadband connection from the user's    location; (3) requires Internet protocol-compatible    customer premises equipment; and (4) permits users    generally to receive calls that originate on the public switched    telephone network and to terminate calls to the public switched    telephone network. The FCC relied upon its ancillary    jurisdiction under Title I of the Communications Act of    1934, as amended, (the “Act”) to impose the 911    regulations without classifying “interconnected VoIP    Services” as telecommunications or information services.    Currently, the FCC is considering whether to adopt additional    911 regulations, and Congress is considering whether to adopt    VoIP 911 legislation, which could include statutory immunity for    lawsuits relating to VoIP 911 services. It is not possible to    predict if, when, or how the FCC's 911 rules will be    amended or Congress will adopt VoIP 911 legislation, or its    effect on our operations.
 
    CALEA Regulation.
  On September 23, 2005,    the FCC took a significant step to apply CALEA, the    Communications Assistance for Law Enforcement Act, obligations    to new technologies and services that are increasingly used as    substitutes for conventional services. Specifically, the FCC    found that (1) all facilities-based broadband Internet    access service providers and (2) providers of    “interconnected VoIP services” must meet the same    CALEA requirements that apply to providers of traditional    services currently subject to wiretap rules, including    circuit-switched telephone voice service and    dial-up
    Internet access. The FCC stated that “in the coming    months” it will release a second order to address    implementation issues raised by the September 23 Order, such as    compliance extensions and exemptions, cost recovery, and    identification of future services and entities subject to CALEA,    and enforcement. It is not possible to predict the outcome of    that proceeding or its effect on our operations.
        27
Table of Contents

    State and    Local Regulation


 
    In general, state regulatory commissions have regulatory    jurisdiction over us when our facilities and services are used    to provide local and other intrastate services. Under the    Telecom Act, state commissions continue to set the requirements    for providers of local and intrastate services, including    quality of services criteria. State regulatory commissions also    can regulate the rates charged by CLECs for intrastate and local    services and can set prices for interconnection by new    telecommunications service providers with the ILEC networks, in    accordance with guidelines established by the FCC. In addition,    state regulatory commissions in many instances have authority    under state law to adopt additional regulations governing local    competition and consumer protection, as long as the state's    actions are not inconsistent with federal law or regulation.
 
    Most state regulatory commissions require companies that wish to    provide intrastate common carrier services to register or be    certified to provide these services. These certifications    generally require a showing that the carrier has adequate    financial, managerial and technical resources to offer the    proposed services in a manner consistent with the public    interest. We are certified in all of the states in which we    conduct business. In most states, we are also required to file    tariffs setting forth the terms, conditions and prices for    services that are classified as intrastate, and to update or    amend our tariffs as rates change or new products are added. We    may also be subject to various reporting and record-keeping    requirements.
 
    Where we choose to deploy our own transmission facilities, we    may be required, in some cities, to obtain street opening and    construction permits, permission to use    rights-of-way,
    zoning variances and other approvals from municipal authorities.    We also may be required to obtain a franchise to place    facilities in public    rights-of-way.
    In some areas, we may be required to pay license or franchise    fees for these approvals. We cannot provide assurances that fees    will remain at current levels, or that our competitors will face    the same expenses, although the Telecom Act requires that any    fees charged by municipalities be reasonable and    non-discriminatory among telecommunications carriers.
 
    Wireless    Services Affected by State Regulations


 
    While we anticipate that the dedicated wireless communications    links that we expect to provide will be used by our customers as    part of their interstate mobile wireless communications    networks, we market point to point wireless services designed to    carry a customer's telecommunications traffic from a    customer's facility to the facilities of a    telecommunications carrier or to another of the customer's    offices, all within one state. Consequently, we have applied for    and anticipate that we will receive and maintain Certificates of    Public Convenience and Necessity (“CPCN”), file    tariffs and reports, and fulfill other administrative and    financial obligations, such as state universal service fund    obligations, in connection with our services. It is also likely    that we will be subject to the following requirements:
 
    Access to 911 Emergency    Services
.

   Most states require local    exchange carriers to provide access to public safety and    emergency services as a requirement for offering service in that    state. Such requirements are usually imposed on all providers of    local exchange service, regardless of the technology used to    provide that service.
 
    Entry Regulation, Resale, Number Portability, and    Interconnection
.

   State commissions vary    in their application of entry regulations; however most states    require any entity engaged in the provision of    telecommunications services to seek authority prior to providing    such services. This can often require a lengthy application and    hearing process, as well as the requirement to file tariffs. In    addition, providers of telecommunications services must comply    with all local exchange carrier requirements of the Act. All    telecommunications carriers must interconnect, directly or    indirectly, with other telecommunications carriers. In most    cases, agreements and contracts are required to effectuate this    interconnection. Moreover, all local exchange carriers must    provide resale and number portability.
 
    Billing and Collection
.

  Many    states have strict rules regarding the billing, collection, and    eventual disconnection of services classified as basic    telecommunications services.
 
    Regulatory Assessments, Reporting Requirements and    Taxes
.

  Like the FCC, states impose a    variety of reporting requirements, assessments, and taxes on    providers of telecommunications services. While reporting
        28
Table of Contents

    requirements can vary from state to state, they generally    include quarterly or annual reports and service quality reports.    Similarly, there are a number of regulatory assessments and    taxes imposed on telecommunications providers, including gross    receipts taxes and annual assessments on overall intrastate    revenues.
 
    Other State and Local Issues
.

      States may also impose requirements related to consumer    protection, such as    truth-in-billing
    and anti-slamming laws that are in addition to the federal    requirements. At the local level, municipalities may have zoning    ordinances that govern the antenna siting and other real estate    issues, in addition to rules relating to granting public    easements and rights of way for telecommunications services.
 
    
    

        Item 1A.  


        Risk    Factors




 
    Risks    Related to Liquidity, Financial Resources, and    Capitalization



 
    The    covenants in our Credit Agreement restrict our financial and    operational flexibility, which could have an adverse affect on    our results of operations.


 
    Our Credit Agreement contains covenants that restrict, among    other things, the amount of our capital expenditures, our    ability to borrow money, grant additional liens on our assets,    make particular types of investments or other restricted    payments, sell assets or merge or consolidate. A company    controlled by Mr. Icahn holds more than 90% of the    principal amount of the loans outstanding under the Credit    Agreement. Because amendments to or waivers of covenants under    the Credit Agreement generally require the approval or consent    of holders of only a majority of the outstanding principal    amount under the Credit Agreement, decisions whether to amend or    waive compliance with such covenants by the holders of loans    under the Credit Agreement can be made by Mr. Icahn, whether or    not the other holders agree. Our Credit Facility includes a    financial covenant requiring us to maintain minimum earnings    before interest, taxes, depreciation, and amortization, or    EBITDA, for the twelve-month period ending each fiscal quarter.    We did not meet this covenant in 2005 and based on current    financial results and our current business plan, we do not    expect to comply with this covenant in 2006. We have obtained a    waiver through December 31, 2006, but we can not be certain    that we will be able to obtain any further waivers of this, or    any other, covenant in our Credit Agreement.
 
    We completed a prepayment of the outstanding indebtedness under    the Credit Agreement of $100 million during the fourth    quarter of 2005. As part of the Wireline Sale, we have agreed to    prepay all but $75 million of the outstanding indebtedness    under the Credit Agreement, and Elk Associates LLC has agreed to    assume that indebtedness as of the closing of the Wireline Sale.    The lenders of the Credit Agreement have agreed to release us    from any further obligations under the Credit Agreement upon our    making such prepayment.
 
    If we are not able to (i) amend the Credit Agreement    covenant to remove the minimum EBITDA requirements or decrease    the requirement to a level we believe we can achieve,    (ii) obtain an extension on the waiver to at least    March 31, 2007, (iii) repay the Credit Facility with a    new debt or equity offering so that we are in compliance, or    (iv) complete the Wireline Sale and obtain a release from    the lenders from all Credit Agreement obligations, under the    current accounting guidelines we will be required to reclassify    the $301.1 million of our outstanding long term debt to    short term debt as of March 31, 2006. While the existing    waivers prevent the lenders under the Credit Facility from    accelerating repayment of the outstanding indebtedness under the    Credit Facility until March 31, 2007, this reclassification    would cause a significant deterioration to our disclosed working    capital and financial position. The security for the Credit    Agreement consists of substantially all of our wireline and    wireless assets. A default under the Credit Agreement could    adversely affect our rights under other commercial agreements.
 
    The Credit Agreement and the existence of the loans under the    Credit Agreement also could affect our financial and operational    flexibility, as follows:
 
    
    
    

     
        • 
        they may impair our ability to obtain additional financing in    the future;

 

     
        • 
        they may limit our flexibility in planning for or reacting to    changes in market conditions; and

 

     
        • 
        they may cause us to be more vulnerable in the event of a    downturn in our business.


        29
Table of Contents

 
    We may    not prevail in our $50 million claim against the Allegiance    Telecom Liquidating Trust, and we may not be successful in    defending ourselves from the Allegiance Telecom Liquidating    Trust's counterclaim against us.


 
    In August 2004, we filed an administrative claim against the    Allegiance Telecom Liquidating Trust, or ATLT, the successor to    the assets and liabilities of Allegiance Telecom, Inc. that we    did not acquire. We have claimed that we are entitled to    approximately $50 million in damages related to a variety    of actions taken by Allegiance and the ATLT. The ATLT filed a    counterclaim against us in November 2004 seeking damages of    approximately $100 million. The case went to trial on    May 2, 2005 and has not yet been decided. After the trial,    the ATLT reduced its counterclaim to approximately    $27.8 million. We have pursued our claims against the ATLT,    and we have disputed the ATLT counterclaim as being frivolous    and without merit. There can be no assurance, however, that we    will be successful in recovering the damages to which we believe    we are entitled, or that we will successfully defend ourselves    against the ATLT counterclaim, in which case our financial    condition and results of operations could be materially and    adversely affected.
 
    The    Wireline Sale may not close, which would require us to    reevaluate our strategic alternatives.


 
    The Wireline Sale may not be completed for a variety of reasons,    including an unfavorable judgment in the pending shareholder    litigation in connection with the Wireline Sale. If we are not    able to close the Wireline Sale, we will be required to    reevaluate our strategic direction, including exploring options    to refinance our senior secured debt. The evaluation of    strategic alternatives requires significant management attention    and causes uncertainty among our customers, vendors, and    employees. There can also be no assurance that we will be able    to successfully identify an alternative strategy to the Wireline    Sale, the timeframe in which we would identify that strategy,    and whether we would successfully execute upon that strategy.    Consequently, the failure of the Wireline Sale to be consummated    could have material adverse consequences on our financial    position and results of operations.
 
    We    incurred a net loss in the past and, in the near term, may not    generate funds from operations sufficient to meet all of our    cash requirements.


 
    For each period since inception, we have incurred net losses.    For the year ended December 31, 2005, we posted a net loss    attributable to common stockholders of approximately    $159.2 million. In the near term, we expect to use cash to    fund our ongoing capital expenditure requirements.
 
    Risks    Related to Our Wireline Operations



 
    In the    event of a substantial failure of our operations support    systems, including the systems for sales tracking, order entry    and provisioning, and billing, our Disaster Recovery System may    not permit us to recover our systems operations and perform    critical aspects of our services for an extended period, which    would adversely affect our revenues or capital    resources.


 
    Our Disaster Recovery framework to control and address systems    risks is not fully redundant, and we may incur the costs, delays    and customer complaints associated with system failures. In    addition, our ability to efficiently and accurately provision    new orders for services on a timely basis is necessary for us to    begin to generate revenue related to those services.
 
    Our    rights to the use of the unlit capacity that make up our network    may be affected by the financial health of our fiber    providers.


 
    We possess the right to use the unlit capacity that is included    in our network, particularly in our intercity network, through    long-term leases or indefeasible right of use agreements. A    bankruptcy or financial collapse of one of these fiber providers    could result in a loss of our rights under such leases and    agreements with the provider, which in turn could have a    negative impact on the integrity of our network, our ability to    expand the capacity of our network as our business grows, and    ultimately on our results of operations.
        30
Table of Contents

    We may    not be able to continue to connect our network to the    ILEC's network or maintain Internet peering arrangements on    favorable terms, which would impair our growth and    performance.


 
    We are required to be a party to interconnection agreements with    the ILECs in order to connect our customers to the PSTN. If we    are unable to renegotiate or maintain interconnection agreements    in all of our markets on favorable terms, it could adversely    affect our ability to provide services in the affected markets.
 
    Peering agreements with ISPs allow us to access the Internet and    exchange traffic with these providers. Depending on the relative    size of the providers involved, these exchanges may be made    without settlement charge. Recently, many ISPs that previously    offered peering have reduced or eliminated peering relationships    or are establishing new, more restrictive criteria for peering    and an increasing number of these ISPs are seeking to impose    charges for transit. Increases in costs associated with Internet    and exchange transit could have an adverse effect on our margins    for our services that require Internet access. We may not be    able to renegotiate or maintain peering arrangements on    favorable terms, which would impair our growth and performance.
 
    We depend    on a limited number of third party service providers for the    performance of several our business operations, including    payroll and billing services.


 
    If any of these third party providers were to experience    significant interruptions in their business operations,    terminate their agreements with us, or fail to perform the    services required under the terms of our contracts with them,    our own processing could be materially and adversely affected    for a period of time that we can not predict. There can be no    assurance that we would be able to locate alternative providers    of such services, or that we could do so at economical rates.
 
    We may be    unable to adequately protect our intellectual property or rights    to licenses for use of third-party intellectual property, and    may be subject to claims that we infringe the intellectual    property of others, which could substantially harm our    business.


 
    We rely on a combination of patents, copyrights, and other    proprietary technology that we license from third parties. We    have been issued several United States and foreign trademarks    and may consider filing for additional trademarks in the future.    We have also been issued one United States patent and may    consider filing for additional patents in the future. However,    we cannot assure you that any additional patents or trademarks    will be issued or that our issued patent or trademarks will be    upheld in all cases. We cannot guarantee that these and other    intellectual property protection measures will be sufficient to    prevent misappropriation of our trademark or technology or that    our competitors or licensors will not independently develop    technologies that are substantially equivalent to or superior to    ours. In addition, the legal systems in many other countries do    not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as    the legal system of the United States. If we are unable to    adequately protect our proprietary interests and business    information or our present license arrangements, our business,    financial condition and results of operations could be adversely    affected. Further, the dependence of the telecommunications    industry on proprietary technology has resulted in frequent    litigation based on allegations of the infringement of patents    and other intellectual property. In the future, we may be    subject to litigation to defend against claimed infringement of    the rights of others or to determine the scope and validity of    the proprietary rights of others. Future litigation also may be    necessary to enforce and protect our trade secrets and other    intellectual property rights. Any intellectual property    litigation could be costly and cause diversion of our    management's attention from the operation of our business.    Adverse determinations in any litigation could result in the    loss of proprietary rights, subject us to significant    liabilities or require us to seek licenses from third parties    that may not be available on commercially reasonable terms, if    at all. We could also be subject to court orders preventing us    from providing certain services in connection with the delivery    of services to our customers.
        31
Table of Contents

    We    experience turnover among our experienced and trained employee    base, which could result in our inability to continue performing    certain functions and completing certain initiatives in    accordance with our existing budgets and operating    plans.


 
    We depend on the performance of our executive officers and key    sales, engineering, and operations personnel, many of whom have    significant experience in the telecommunications industry and    substantial tenures with either our company or that of one of    the companies that we have acquired. We experience turnover    among our employees as a whole, and if we are not able to retain    our executive officers or other key employees, we could    experience a material and adverse effect on our financial    condition and results of operations. In addition, in spite of    the recent downturn in the U.S. economy, recruitment and    retention of qualified employees remain highly competitive, and    there can be no assurance that, if we lose one or more of our    senior executives or key employees, we will be able to replace    those persons, or, if we are able to replace such persons, that    we will be able to do so without incurring significant    additional labor costs or disruptions in our operations.
 
    Several    customers account for a significant portion of our revenue, and    some of our customer agreements may not continue due to    bankruptcies, acquisitions, nonrenewal, or other    factors.


 
    We have substantial business relationships with large    telecommunications carriers for whom we provide long distance    and local transport services. The highly competitive environment    and the industry consolidation in the long distance and wireless    markets has challenged the financial condition and growth    prospects of some of our carrier customers, and has caused such    carrier customers to optimize the telecommunications capacity    that they utilize among competing telecommunications services    providers' networks, including ours. Replacing this revenue    may be difficult because individual enterprise and SMB customers    tend to place smaller service orders than our larger carrier    customers. In addition, pricing pressure on products that we    sell to our carrier customers may challenge our ability to grow    revenue from carrier customers. As a result, if our larger    carrier customers terminate the services they receive from us,    our revenues and results of operations could be materially and    adversely affected.
 
    Risks    Related to Our Wireless Operations



 
    Our    Wireless Business is in the early stages of development and we    may not be able to implement its business strategy or obtain new    customers.


 
    Our fixed wireless business provides services in an emerging    market and is subject to the inherent risks of early stage    enterprises. The Wireline Sale will result in the transfer of    virtually all of our historic assets (other than cash and cash    equivalents, marketable securities, and fixed wireless    licenses), liabilities and operations. We anticipate making    significant capital expenditures to purchase equipment, acquire    service and hub locations, further develop our information    technology systems, and otherwise continue the growth and    development of our fixed wireless business. There can be no    assurance that we will successfully execute on our business plan    even if such capital expenditures are made. There can also be no    assurance that the market will accept our wireless services, or    that developments in the communications market that we believe    could contribute to the growth of our wireless business will be    sustained.
 
    One    customer accounts for nearly all of our wireless services    revenue.


 
    We have a business relationship with a large, mobile wireless    telecommunications carrier for whom we provide cellular backhaul    services. As a result, if our relationship with that carrier    customer were to deteriorate, or if that carrier customer were    to experience significant adverse business developments, our    wireless revenues and results of operations could be materially    and adversely affected.
 
    Our    licenses may not be renewed upon expiration.


 
    Our spectrum licenses in the LMDS and 39 GHz bands are    granted for ten (10) year terms. The renewal dates for our    LMDS licenses are generally in 2008. The renewal dates for our    39 GHz licenses are in 2010. To qualify for renewal of a    license, we must demonstrate that we have provided    “substantial service” by the end
        32
Table of Contents

    of the license term. The FCC's “substantial    service” renewal standard for both LMDS and 39 GHz    licensees is intended to provide licensees with flexibility in    renewing their licenses. The FCC's “safe harbor”    guidelines provide licensees with a degree of certainty as to    how to comply with the requirement, but they are not the only    way to demonstrate substantial service. The FCC has provided    “safe harbor” examples of what would constitute    substantial service for a LMDS and 39 GHz licensee. For an    LMDS licensee that chooses to offer    point-to-multipoint
    services, a demonstration of coverage to twenty percent (20%) of    the population of its licensed area at the ten (10) year    mark would constitute substantial service. In the alternative,    for an LMDS licensee that chooses to offer fixed,    point-to-point
    services, the construction of four (4) permanent links per    one million people in its licensed area would constitute    substantial service. For a 39 GHz licensee, the FCC adopted    the safe harbor of four (4) links per million population    within a service area for a traditional    point-to-point
    service. The FCC has taken a flexible approach to assessing    whether LMDS and 39 GHz licensees are providing substantial    services, including, for example, determining that a licensee is    providing niche, specialized or technologically sophisticated    services.
 
    While we expect that we will be able to demonstrate that we are    providing substantial service for each of our licenses, the FCC    may modify its definition of substantial service and, in the    future, we may offer services for which the FCC establishes more    stringent substantial service requirements. Finally, we expect    our FCC licenses will not be reviewed for substantial service on    a company-wide basis but rather on a    license-by-license
    basis. Therefore, it is possible that, if our networks are not    built-out in a particular licensed region, the license for that    region may be subject to non-renewal, even if we have offered    “substantial service” in adjoining areas, or on some,    but not all, licenses in that market.
 
    If we do    not secure a waiver of the substantial performance obligations    for our A3 Block in New York, we may lose that LMDS    license.


 
    The only exception to our 2008 deadlines for demonstrating that    we are providing substantial service through our LMDS licenses    relates to our A3 Block of LMDS spectrum in eight (8) core    counties in the New York market. While that license was renewed    by the FCC through 2016, we must nonetheless demonstrate that we    are providing substantial service using this license by March    2007. We submitted a request to the FCC on January 12, 2005    to extend the deadline for construction of the facilities    authorized by the A3 Block license in New York until October    2008 to conform with the construction deadline of the    Company's other LMDS licenses. This request remains pending    with the FCC. If we do not secure a grant of this construction    extension request, and waiver of the substantial performance    obligation, there is a risk that we may lose that particular    LMDS license.
 
    A key    aspect of our business strategy is to provide backhaul services    for providers of cellular wireless mobile telecommunications,    and our business will depend to a substantial degree on the    widespread adoption of bandwidth-intensive applications, such as    3G applications.


 
    One of our primary business strategies is to provide cellular    wireless mobile telecommunications companies with backhaul    services (e.g., the movement of telecommunications traffic    between cell sites and points of connection to wired networks).    Demand for backhaul services will depend, to a large extent, on    the widespread acceptance and use of so-called third generation,    or “3G” mobile wireless technologies, such as high    speed data service, video phone capability, telephone    photography, streaming video, downloadable music, and video    games. The implementation of 3G technologies may require    cellular companies to upgrade equipment and make significant    capital expenditures, which may be delayed by a number of    factors outside of our control. Any delay in implementation    could result in reduced demand for backhaul services, which    would have a material adverse effect on our ability to generate    revenues and expand our business.
 
    We may    not be able to successfully execute the necessary real estate    transactions, or to negotiate acceptable rates in those    agreements for placing antennas and having access to necessary    equipment.


 
    The provision of our services may require that we enter into    arrangements with certain property owners in order to attach our    equipment inside or on the rooftops of buildings where our    customers are located. We may require similar agreements in    order to access transmission towers or buildings that we plan to    use as hubs
        33
Table of Contents

    or repeaters for our networks. However, we may be unable to    enter into access arrangements on favorable terms or at all, and    therefore may be unable to service certain prospective    customers. In addition, the general unavailability of    transmission towers may hinder the expansion of our networks.
 
    Additional    spectrum may become available from the FCC, increasing the    number of    and/or
    viability of our competitors or even allowing our customers or    potential customers to obtain their own spectrum outright,    reducing their need to obtain spectrum or services from    us.


 
    Other entities may obtain FCC licenses to operate spectrum in    the same markets as us, thereby offering similar throughput    capacities with comparable transmission reliability. These    entities may decide to enter our business and offer services to    telecommunications companies and our other targeted customers.    They may be able to offer lower prices than us or may have more    spectrum available to use in a given market than us.    Alternatively, potential customers may decide to obtain    equipment that operates on certain bands of frequencies that the    FCC has designated, or may in the future designate, for use    without individual FCC licensing.
 
    For example, the FCC still holds limited amounts of 39 GHz    spectrum left over from the initial 39 GHz auction and also    is considering a notice of proposed rulemaking relating to the    possible auction of the 37 GHz band spectrum, which shares    many physical similarities with our spectrum. Successful    auctions in the 37 GHz or 39 GHz or other high    frequency bands could increase the number of entities that hold    the spectrum, and its general availability and could have a    material adverse effect on the value of our spectrum. Potential    customers that would otherwise use our services could instead    decide to acquire spectrum rights in these auctions or obtain    services from the winners of those auctions. Unsuccessful    auctions of the spectrum may generate low winning bids and could    therefore reduce the values of spectrum in neighboring bands,    including the value of our spectrum licenses. Alternatively, the    FCC may decide to allocate additional spectrum for licensing    without auctions to certain classes of users, such as state and    local government agencies, that otherwise might be potential    customers of our services.
 
    We are    dependent on key personnel and our success depends on our    ability to attract, train and retain additional qualified    personnel.


 
    The loss of one or more key officers, or our failure to    successfully recruit key officers, could impair our ability to    successfully build out and operate our services and network. We    believe that our future success will also depend on our    continued ability to attract and retain highly qualified    technical and management personnel. We believe that there is and    will continue to be intense competition for qualified personnel    in the wireless communications industry. We may not be    successful in retaining our key personnel or in attracting and    retaining other highly qualified technical and management    personnel.
 
    FCC    Regulation of RF emissions and RF environments may increase our    costs and/or
    limit our operations.


 
    The FCC regulates the health and safety effects of radio    frequency emissions for us and other wireless communications    providers. Any FCC licensee whose emissions in an area exceed    five percent (5%) of the total permissible emissions limit is    responsible for ensuring that the site meets applicable health    and safety requirements. The fixed wireless equipment we use is    designed to operate at RF emission levels well below the    FCC's standard. However, if we operates in an area where    other higher RF emitters are operating, we could nonetheless be    required to cooperate with, and contribute financially to,    efforts intended to bring the site within applicable health and    safety limits.
 
    Risks    Related to Competition and Our Industry



 
    Technological    advances and regulatory changes are eroding traditional barriers    between formerly distinct telecommunications markets, which    could increase the competition we face and put downward pressure    on prices, which could impair our results.


 
    New technologies, such as VoIP, and regulatory    changes  —  particularly those    permitting ILECs to provide long distance    services  —  are blurring the    distinctions between traditional and emerging
        34
Table of Contents

    telecommunications markets. In addition, the increasing    importance of data services has focused the attention of most    telecommunications companies on this growing sector. As a    result, a competitor in any of our business areas is potentially    a competitor in our other business areas, which could impair our    prospects, put downward pressure on prices and adversely affect    our operating results.
 
    The    telecommunications industry is highly competitive, and has    experienced the consolidation of many existing competitors and    the introduction of significant new competitors.


 
    The communications industry is highly competitive. Many of our    competitors generate significantly greater revenue, and possess    significantly greater assets and financial resources than we do.    This competition places downward pressure on prices for local    and long distance telephone service and data services, which can    adversely affect our operating results. Also, as the technology    to deliver VoIP services is improved, more companies will be    able to compete with us in our metro markets without    constructing or acquiring PSTN assets in those markets. In    addition, we could face competition from other companies, such    as other competitive carriers, cable television companies,    microwave carriers, wireless telephone system operators and    private networks built by large end-users. We are much smaller    in size and resources than many of our competitors. If we are    not able to successfully compete against our larger competitors    and the new entrants into the telecommunications market, our    financial condition and results of operations could be    materially and adversely affected.
 
    We are    subject to comprehensive and continually evolving    regulation.


 
    We and some of our services and facilities are regulated by the    FCC, states, local zoning authorities, and other governmental    entities. These regulators routinely conduct rulemaking    proceedings and issue interpretations of existing rules. These    regulatory proceedings could impose additional obligations on    us, give rights to competitors, increase our costs, and    otherwise adversely affect our ability to implement our business    plan. Attempts to limit the basic competitive framework of the    Telecom Act could interfere with the successful implementation    of our business plan.
 
    Risks    Related to Our Common Stock



 
    An entity    owned and controlled by Mr. Icahn is our majority    stockholder.


 
    An entity owned and controlled by Mr. Icahn, Chairman of    our board of directors, filed a Form 13D with the    Securities and Exchange Commission in February 2006 disclosing    that his beneficial ownership, as defined therein, was 62% of XO    Holdings. As a result, Mr. Icahn has the power to elect all    of our directors. Under applicable law and our certificate of    incorporation and by-laws, certain actions cannot be taken    without the approval of holders of a majority of our voting    stock including, without limitation, mergers and the sale of    substantially all of our assets and amendments to our    certificate of incorporation and by-laws.
 
    Future    sales or issuances of our common stock could adversely affect    our stock price    and/or
 our    ability to raise capital.


 
    Future sales of substantial amounts of our common stock, or the    perception that such sales could occur, could adversely affect    the prevailing market price of our common stock and our ability    to raise capital. In particular, we anticipate that the ATLT,    holder of approximately 45,380,000 shares of our common    stock, upon effectiveness of the registration statement filed by    us on the ATLT's behalf, may exercise its rights under an    existing Registration Rights Agreement to publicly resell some    or all of those shares.
 
    As of March 14, 2006, there were 181,933,035 shares of    our common stock outstanding. The shares of our common stock    owned by an entity owned and controlled by Mr. Icahn are    restricted shares that may be sold only under a registration    statement or an exemption from federal securities registration    requirements. Mr. Icahn, through various entities that he    owns or controls, has the right to require XO to register, under    the Securities Act of 1933, shares of common stock held by such    entities and to include shares of our common stock held by them    in certain registration statements filed by XO Holdings.
        35
Table of Contents

    We have issued and there remain outstanding three series of    warrants to purchase up to an aggregate of approximately    9.5 million, 7.1 million and 7.1 million    additional shares of our common stock, at exercise prices of    $6.25, $7.50 and $10.00 per share, respectively. The    warrants will expire on January  16, 2010.
 
    We have options outstanding to purchase approximately    11.3 million shares of common stock reserved for issuance    under our 2002 Stock Incentive Plan as of December 31,    2005. Unless surrendered or cancelled earlier under the terms of    the stock incentive plan, those options will expire beginning in    2013. In addition, our 2002 Stock Incentive Plan authorizes    future grants of options to purchase common stock, or awards of    restricted common stock, with respect to an additional    6.3 million shares of common stock in the aggregate.
 
    Item 2.  Properties



 
    We lease facilities for our administrative and sales offices,    central switching offices, network nodes and warehouse space.    The various leases expire in years ranging from 2006 to 2019.    Most have renewal options.
 
    For our Wireless Business, we own or lease, in the metropolitan    areas in which we operate, fixed wireless communications    equipment, which includes wireless distribution sites,    transmission and reception equipment, routers, and    interconnection facilities with wireline communications    carriers. With respect to buildings in which we have installed    wireless communications transmission and reception equipment, we    generally lease technical and equipment storage space, conduit,    and rights to install equipment on the building rooftop.
 
    For our Wireline Business, we own or lease, in the metropolitan    areas in which we operate, telecommunications property which    includes: fiber optic backbone and distribution network    facilities; central office switching equipment; connecting lines    between customers' premises and the central offices; and    customer premise equipment. Our central office switching    equipment includes electronic switches and peripheral equipment.
 
    The fiber optic backbone and distribution network and connecting    lines include aerial and underground cable, conduit, poles and    wires. These facilities are located on public streets and    highways or on privately-owned land. We have permission to use    these lands pursuant to consent or lease, permit, easement, or    other agreements.
 
    Our headquarters is located at 11111 Sunset Hills Road, Reston,    Virginia, where we currently occupy approximately 167 thousand    square feet of administrative space.
 
    
    

        Item 3.  


        Legal    Proceedings





 
    We are involved in lawsuits, claims, investigations and    proceedings consisting of commercial, regulatory, securities,    tort and employment matters, which arise in the ordinary course    of business. In accordance with SFAS No. 5,    “Accounting for Contingencies,” we make a provision    for a liability when it is both probable that a liability has    been incurred and the amount of the loss can be reasonably    estimated. We believe we have adequate provisions for any such    matters. We review these provisions at least quarterly and    adjust them to reflect the impacts of negotiations, settlements,    rulings, advice of legal counsel, and other information and    events pertaining to a particular case. Litigation is inherently    unpredictable. However, we believe that we have valid defenses    with respect to legal matters pending against us. Nevertheless,    it is possible that cash flows or results of operations could be    materially affected in any particular period by the unfavorable    resolution of one or more of these contingencies.
 
    Allegiance    Telecom Liquidating Trust Litigation



 
    In August 2004 XOC filed an administrative claim, or the    Administrative Claim, against the ATLT, the successor to the    assets and liabilities of Allegiance that XOC did not acquire.    All of the rights, duties, obligations and liabilities of XOC in    connection with the Administrative Claim, as well as any other    matters pertaining to or arising from the acquisition by XOC of    Allegiance, were assumed by LMDS Co. and assigned to LMDS Co. by    XOC as part of the Restructuring, pursuant to that certain    Assignment and Assumption Agreement, dated as of March 1,    2006. Under this assignment and assumption, we are entitled to    exercise the rights previously asserted by XOC in connection    with this action.
        36
Table of Contents

    We have claimed that we are entitled to approximately    $50 million in damages related to a variety of actions    taken by Allegiance and the ATLT. The ATLT filed a counterclaim    against us in November 2004 seeking damages of approximately    $100 million. The case went to trial in the United States    Bankruptcy Court for the Southern District of New York on    May 2, 2005 and has not yet been decided. After the trial,    the ATLT reduced its counterclaim to approximately    $27.8 million. We have pursued our claims against the ATLT,    and we have disputed the ATLT counterclaim as being frivolous    and without merit. There can be no assurance, however, that we    will be successful in recovering the damages to which we believe    we are entitled, or that we will successfully defend ourselves    against the ATLT counterclaim, in which case our financial    condition and results of operations could be materially and    adversely affected.
 
    As of December 31, 2005, we had $8.0 million recorded    in other current assets related to certain payments made on    behalf of the ATLT that we believe are reimbursable by the ATLT.    Other than this amount, the accompanying financial statements do    not include any impact from the Administrative Claim.
 
    Litigation    Relating to the Wireline Sale



 
    On December 23, 2005, R2 Investments, following its receipt    of documentation from us in connection with a then-pending claim    under Section 220 of the Delaware General Corporation Law,    filed a lawsuit filed in the Delaware Court of Chancery    challenging the Wireline Sale. The complaint names as defendants    us, our directors and certain affiliates of Mr. Icahn,    including Cardiff and Buyer. The complaint, R2    Investments v. Carl C. Icahn, et al.
 (C.A.    No. 1862-N),
    alleges, among other things, that (i) Mr. Icahn and    Cardiff breached fiduciary duties of care, good faith and    loyalty in connection with the Equity Purchase Agreement and the    Stockholder Voting Agreement, (ii) XO Communications and    the director defendants acted in concert and conspired with    Mr. Icahn and Cardiff and (iii) the director    defendants violated their fiduciary duties in connection with    the Equity Purchase Agreement by failing to obtain the greatest    value for all stockholders. The complaint seeks equitable    relief, including, among other things, an injunction against    consummation of the Wireline Sale and rescission, to the extent    implemented, of the Equity Purchase Agreement, the Stockholder    Voting Agreement and the Wireline Sale.
 
    On January 9, 2006, ATLT filed a complaint in the Delaware    Court of Chancery challenging the Wireline Sale. With limited    exceptions, the complaint, Allegiance Telecom Liquidating    Trust v. Carl C. Icahn, et al.
 (C.A. No.    1877-N),
 is    substantially the same as R2 Investments' complaint.
 
    On January 11, 2006, Mr. Donald J.    Hillenmeyer, Jr., who alleges that he is one of our    stockholders, filed a putative stockholder derivative action on    behalf of XO LLC in the Delaware Court of Chancery challenging    the Wireline Sale. The complaint, Donald J.    Hillenmeyer, Jr. v. XO Communications, Inc., et    al.
  (C.A.    No. 1880-N),
    names as defendants XOC its directors and certain affiliates of    Mr. Icahn, including Cardiff and Buyer, and alleges, among    other things, that (i) Mr. Icahn and Cardiff breached    alleged fiduciary duties of care, good faith and loyalty in    connection with the May 2005 waiver of defaults under the    existing credit facility granted by affiliates of Mr. Icahn, the    Equity Purchase Agreement and the Stockholder Voting Agreement,    (iii) the director defendants (excluding Mr. Icahn)    gave substantial assistance to Mr. Icahn in respect of such    waiver, the Equity Purchase Agreement and the Stockholder Voting    Agreement in violation of their fiduciary duties, and    (iii) the director defendants, Cardiff and Buyer allegedly    acted in concert and conspired to permit the director defendants    and Cardiff to violate their fiduciary duties.    Mr. Hillenmeyer's complaint seeks equitable relief,    including, among other things, an injunction against    consummation of the Wireline Sale and rescission, to the extent    implemented, of the Equity Purchase Agreement, the Stockholder    Voting Agreement and the Wireline Sale. In addition, the    complaint seeks repayment to XO by the director defendants of    all compensation and other remuneration paid to any of them    during the period of the alleged breaches of their fiduciary    duties.
 
    The three actions are being coordinated in one proceeding, and    discovery is ongoing. The court has scheduled a hearing for    May 11, 2006 on plaintiffs' motion to preliminarily    enjoin the Wireline Sale. Although we believe the complaints to    be without merit and intend to defend them vigorously, it is not    possible to render a view of the likely outcome of these    proceedings.
        37
Table of Contents

    Houlihan    Lokey Howard and Zukin Capital LLC



 
    On February 21, 2003, Houlihan Lokey Howard and Zukin    Capital LLC, or HLHZ, filed an Application for Payment of Final    Compensation as Debtor's Financial Advisor with the    U.S. Bankruptcy Court for the Southern District of New    York. The claim asserted a right to payment of fees in excess of    $19.0 million and represents HLHZ's claim for advising    us in our financial restructuring in 2002 and 2003. High River    Limited Partnership and Meadow Walk Limited Partnership, two    entities controlled by Mr. Icahn, and XOC objected to the    fee claim on the ground that, inter alia, it was grossly    excessive and, accordingly, not reasonable compensation under    applicable provisions of the Bankruptcy Code. On March 9,    2005, the Bankruptcy Court ruled that the appropriate fee in    this matter was $4.4 million, credited XOC with    $2.0 million for amounts previously paid, and ordered XOC    to pay the difference to HLHZ. XOC paid the amount in full on    March 31, 2005. On March 31, 2005, HLHZ appealed the    Bankruptcy Court ruling. The Appeal is pending.
 
    Cox    Communications Las Vegas, Indefeasible Right of Use (IRU)    Agreement



 
    On July 19, 2004, XOC informed Cox Communications Las Vegas    (“Cox”) that XOC was disputing as wrongly calculated    an invoice that Cox had submitted to XOC in the amount of    approximately $2.8 million. The dispute arises from an IRU    Agreement between Cox and XOC in which XOC leased from Cox    certain fiber optic facilities in the Las Vegas, Nevada area. In    February 2005 the parties unsuccessfully engaged in mediation.    Cox notified XOC that is was proceeding to binding arbitration.    XOC filed a $3.5 million counterclaim based on over-billing    by Cox. Because the IRU Agreement is an ongoing agreement, the    amounts in dispute and the counterclaim increase monthly. Cox    has claimed an aggregate of in excess of $4.0 million in    respect of such dispute. Arbitration is pending.
 
    In accordance with the terms of the IRU Agreement, in September    2005, XOC requested renewal of the IRU Agreement upon its    expiration in April 2006. Cox declined to renew the IRU    Agreement alleging that XOC is in Default as such term is    defined under the IRU Agreement based on the ongoing dispute.    XOC does not believe that the ongoing dispute constitutes a    Default. Arbitration is pending. If Cox is successful in their    assertion and declines to renew the IRU Agreement, our ability    to provide services to customers in the Las Vegas area at    competitive rates will be adversely affected.
 
    Level 3



 
    We have received formal correspondence from Level 3    indicating that, as a result of statements made in our 2004    10-K,
    wherein we said that we were considering among other options,    lighting our dark fiber in the United States to create    wavelengths capacity, we were and are in material breach of its    contractual obligations to Level 3. Potential damages for    this alleged breach could be significant although we believe the    Level 3 claim has little merit.
 
    Verizon    Indemnification Notice



 
    On or about October 12, 2005, pursuant to certain    indemnification provisions contained in a March 14, 2002,    Services Agreement between XO Interactive (“XOI”), a    subsidiary of XO LLC, and VSSI/Verizon (“Verizon”),    Verizon notified XOI that Verizon and its subsidiaries, among    others, had been sued by Aerotel, Ltd. for breach of contract    and declaratory judgment in the United States Court for the    Southern District of New York on January 7, 2005. (Aerotel,    LTD v Verizon Company et al (CA 05 CV 0120 (TPG))). The    suit relates to certain prepaid calling card services, and    Aerotel's claim that Verizon's provision of those    services are covered by an Aerotel patent, and unless licensed,    infringe that patent; that Verizon obtained a license under the    patent from Aerotel; but that Verizon has defaulted in payment    of licensing royalties. XOI has not acknowledged any such    infringement, or liability either to Verizon or Aerotel, but is    cooperating both with Verizon, with respect to the indemnity    provisions, and Aerotel, with respect to its subpoena to XOI for    information and documents.
 
    
    

        Item 4.  


        Submission    of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders





 
    No matter was submitted to a vote of security holders during the    fourth quarter of 2005.
        38
Table of Contents

 
    Part II



 
    
    

        Item 5.  


        Market    for Registrant's Common Equity and Related Stockholder    Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities





 
    Our common stock is quoted on the OTCBB under the symbol    “XOHO.OB.” The following table sets forth the low and    high sale price of our common stock, based on the last daily    sale, in each of our last eight fiscal quarters.
 
     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	
 
 
    2005


 
 
    2004


 

 
 
    High


 
 
    Low


 
 
    High


 
 
    Low


 

 

    First Quarter



 
    $
    3.37
 
 
    $
    2.30
 
 
    $
    7.90
 
 
    $
    4.98
 

    Second Quarter



 
 
    3.09
 
 
 
    1.75
 
 
 
    5.70
 
 
 
    3.33
 

    Third Quarter



 
 
    3.01
 
 
 
    2.22
 
 
 
    4.00
 
 
 
    3.16
 

    Fourth Quarter



 
    $
    2.63
 
 
    $
    1.76
 
 
    $
    3.62
 
 
    $
    2.67
 



 
    All of the 2005    over-the-counter
    market quotations set forth in this table reflect inter-dealer    quotations, without retail mark-up, mark-down, or commission and    may not necessarily reflect actual transactions. Our Credit    Facility prohibits the payment of cash dividends.
        39
Table of Contents

 
    
    

        Item 6.  


        Selected    Financial Data





 
    Our selected financial data table follows (dollars in thousands,    except share data).
 
     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	
 
 
    Reorganized XO (f)    


 
 
    Predecessor XO    


 

 
 
    Year Ended    December 31,


 
 
    Year Ended    December 31,


 

 
 
    2005


 
 
    2004 (a)


 
 
    2003


 
 
    2002


 
 
    2001


 

 

    Statement of Operations    Data:



 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

    Revenue    


 
    $
    1,433,622
 
 
    $
    1,300,420
 
 
    $
    1,110,483
 
 
    $
    1,259,853
 
 
    $
    1,258,567
 

    Loss from operations(b)    


 
 
    (126,394
    )
 
 
    (370,292
    )
 
 
    (111,858
    )
 
 
    (1,208,898
    )
 
 
    (1,949,891
    )

    Net loss(c)    


 
 
    (146,505
    )
 
 
    (405,543
    )
 
 
    (102,554
    )
 
 
    (3,386,818
    )
 
 
    (2,086,125
    )

    Net loss applicable to common    shares(d)    


 
 
    (159,208
    )
 
 
    (410,453
    )
 
 
    (102,554
    )
 
 
    (3,350,362
    )
 
 
    (1,838,917
    )

    Net loss per common share, basic    and diluted    


 
 
    (0.88
    )
 
 
    (2.57
    )
 
 
    (1.07
    )
 
 
    (7.58
    )
 
 
    (4.55
    )

    Statement of Cash Flow    Data:



 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

    Net cash (used in) provided by    operating activities    


 
 
    108,980
 
 
 
    150
 
 
 
    6,301
 
 
 
    17,602
 
 
 
    (560,877
    )

    Net cash (used in) provided by    investing activities    


 
 
    (56,223
    )
 
 
    (444,837
    )
 
 
    153,036
 
 
 
    57,582
 
 
 
    (708,598
    )

    Net cash (used in) provided by    financing activities    


 
 
    (109,908
    )
 
 
    200,116
 
 
 
    5,185
 
 
 
    (6,079
    )
 
 
    (1,019,647
    )

    Balance Sheet Data:



 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

    Cash, cash equivalents and    marketable securities    


 
 
    183,988
 
 
 
    251,289
 
 
 
    520,612
 
 
 
    560,983
 
 
 
    755,167
 

    Property and equipment, net    


 
 
    717,627
 
 
 
    820,536
 
 
 
    485,984
 
 
 
    2,780,589
 
 
 
    3,742,577
 

    Broadband wireless licenses    


 
 
    40,527
 
 
 
    46,854
 
 
 
    53,181
 
 
 
    911,832
 
 
 
    947,545
 

    Other intangibles, net(c)    


 
 
    51,252
 
 
 
    93,012
 
 
 
    56,334
 
 
 
    72,782
 
 
 
    2,030,030
 

    Total assets(c)    


 
 
    1,202,725
 
 
 
    1,459,385
 
 
 
    1,265,165
 
 
 
    4,585,496
 
 
 
    7,930,465
 

    Total long-term debt and accrued    interest payable(e)    


 
 
    301,113
 
 
 
    366,247
 
 
 
    536,791
 
 
 
    5,165,718
 
 
 
    5,109,503
 

    Redeemable preferred stock, net of    issuance costs    


 
 
    217,056
 
 
 
    204,353
 
 
 
    —
 
 
 
    1,708,316
 
 
 
    1,781,990
 

    Total stockholders' equity    (deficit)(e)    


 
    $
    322,588
 
 
    $
    485,552
 
 
    $
    380,425
 
 
    $
    (3,032,282
    )
 
    $
    297,416
 



 

 
    
    
    

        (a)    

    
        The selected consolidated financial    data includes the accounts and activities of the businesses we    acquired from Allegiance Telecom, Inc. from June 23, 2004,    the acquisition date through December 31, 2004.    


 

        (b)    

    
        In 2004, loss from operations    included a $212.5 million non-cash impairment charge of    goodwill. In 2002, loss from operations included non-cash    charges totaling $477.3 million in connection with the    amendment to the terms of fiber acquisition and maintenance    arrangements with Level 3 Communications, and the return of    previously acquired intercity fiber in connection therewith. In    2001, loss from operations included restructuring charges    totaling $509.2 million associated with the restructuring    of certain aspects of our business operations.    


 

        (c)    

    
        In 2004, net loss included a    $212.5 million non-cash impairment charge of goodwill. In    2003, net loss included a $33.5 million gain on investment    sales. In 2002, net loss and total assets reflects a    $1,876.6 million impairment charge to write-off all of our    goodwill as a cumulative effect of accounting change, pursuant    to SFAS No. 142. In 2001, net loss included a gain of    $345.0 million resulting from the repurchase of certain of    our senior notes.    


 

        (d)    

    
        The comparability of net loss    applicable to common shares is impacted by the transactions    discussed in c. above. In addition, in 2001, net loss applicable    to common shares includes a gain of $376.9 million    resulting from the repurchase of certain of our preferred stock.    


 

        (e)    

    
        In January 2004, we completed a    rights offering. An aggregate of 39.7 million shares were    issued in the offering, yielding net proceeds of    $197.6 million. These proceeds were used to pay down our    long-term debt and accrued interest payable.    


 

        (f)    

    
        The reorganized selected    consolidated financial data as of and for the years ended    December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003 reflects the impact of    adopting fresh start reporting as of January 1, 2003, and    is not comparable to that of predecessor XO. Upon emergence from    bankruptcy, we recognized a reorganization gain, net of    $3,032.3 million which is not presented. The predecessor    selected consolidated financial data below as of and for the    years ended December 31, 2002 and 2001 does not include the    effects of the    



        40
Table of Contents

    
    
    

    
    
        fresh start accounting provisions    of    SOP 90-7.
    Fresh start required that XOC adjust the historical cost of its    assets and liabilities to their fair values as determined by its    reorganization value.    



 
    
    

        Item 7.  


        Management's    Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of    Operations





 
    OVERVIEW    OF OUR BUSINESS


 
    In general, growth in the telecommunications industry has been    sluggish for the last several years. Demand for some services,    such as wireless and integrated product offerings has increased,    but for many other products and services price compression,    reductions in regulated rates and lower demand have resulted in    year over year revenue declines for many telecommunication    companies. In response to these and other factors, in March 2005    we engaged Jefferies and Company (“Jefferies”) to    present strategic alternatives based on, among other things, the    competitive environment of the telecommunications industry, the    current regulatory environment, and the recent and pending    mergers and acquisitions in our industry. We reviewed    Jefferies' report, and in May 2005, we retained Jefferies    to assist us in exploring our strategic alternatives, including    a potential sale of our wireline telecommunications business    (the “Wireline Business”). On November 4, 2005,    XO Communications, Inc. (“XO”), and XO Holdings, Inc.    (“Seller”), entered into an Equity Purchase Agreement    (“the Equity Purchase Agreement”) that provides for    the sale (the “Wireline Sale”) of the Wireline    Business through the sale of all of the outstanding LLC    interests in XO Communications, LLC, a newly formed,    wholly-owned subsidiary of Seller (“XO LLC”), for an    aggregate purchase price of $700 million in cash. Elk    Associates LLC (“Buyer”), an entity owned by XO's    controlling stockholder, Carl Icahn, executed the Equity    Purchase Agreement to purchase the Wireline Business.
 
    Following the Wireline Sale, Seller will retain the    Company's fixed broadband wireless spectrum assets, cash    and cash equivalents, marketable securities and other    investments, and certain other assets and contingent assets, and    will assume certain liabilities and contingent liabilities,    including amounts due under the Company's secured credit    facility (the “Credit Facility”). The assets and    liabilities of the Wireline Business, including the “XO    Communications” brand name, will be transferred to Buyer.    After the close of the Wireline Sale, the Company will focus its    business on the delivery of broadband, fixed wireless    communications services via its exclusively-licensed Local    Multipoint Distribution Service (“LMDS”) wireless    spectrum. We anticipate operating our Wireless Business under a    new name.
 
    We believe that the Wireline Sale will enable us to take    advantage of the increasing demand for broadband wireless    services, which has been precipitated by customer adoption of    higher bandwidth cellular services such as third generation (3G)    and Evolution Data Only (EV-DO) entertainment and media services    delivered to mobile wireless devices. We believe that now is the    appropriate time to shift the focus of our business model from    our Wireline Business to our Wireless business for the following    reasons:
 
    
    
    

     
        • 
        the costs of purchasing and deploying wireless communications    equipment have declined significantly over the last several    years, and we are now positioned to deploy our fixed wireless    equipment in a more cost-effective manner than our traditional    wireline services;

 

     
        • 
        There is a greater recognition of the need for redundancy in the    technologies included in communications networks;

 

     
        • 
        the increased costs of fiber and copper network facilities due    to FCC rulemaking permitting the ILECs to increase prices for    such facilities is expected to increase the cost of providing    traditional wireline services


 
    Key    Performance Indicators


 
    We use certain key performance indicators (“KPIs”) to    assess operational effectiveness of the business, including:
 
    
    
    

     
        • 
        Gross Margin

 

     
        • 
        Sales, Operating and General Expenses as a Percentage of Revenue

 

     
        • 
        EBITDA


        41
Table of Contents

 
    The following table outlines the measurements of these KPIs as a    percentage of revenue for the years ended December 31, 2005    and 2004:
 
     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	
 
 
    Year Ended    December 31,


 

 
 
    2005


 
 
    2004


 

 

    Gross margin    


 
 
    59.0
    %
 
 
    57.5
    %

    EBITDA    


 
 
    7.9
    %
 
 
    (15.8
    )%

    Sales, operating &    general expenses    


 
 
    51.4
    %
 
 
    56.0
    %



 
    We believe that EBITDA and gross margin are measures of    operating performance and liquidity that reflect the ongoing    effectiveness of management's sales, cost control, and    acquisition initiatives. EBITDA in 2004 includes a non-cash    goodwill impairment charge of $212.5 million. When    evaluating our financial performance we exclude this charge, and    generally exclude other charges and income that are not directly    attributable to the provision of service to our customers. Sales    operating and general expense is an important measure of the    efficiency with which we sell, provision and support our    services, and the efficiency of our back office operations.
 
    As we continue to develop our Wireless Business, we envision the    KPIs that we use to assess the business will differ from KPIs we    currently use.
 
    LIQUIDITY    AND CAPITAL RESOURCES


 
    Our cash and cash equivalents decreased from $234.0 million    at December 31, 2004 to $176.8 million at    December 31, 2005. Our cash flows can be broken down as    follows (dollars in thousands):
 
     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	
 
 
    2005


 
 
    2004


 

 

    Operating activities    


 
    $
    108,980
 
 
    $
    150
 

    Investing activities    


 
 
    (56,223
    )
 
 
    (444,837
    )

    Financing activities    


 
 
    (109,908
    )
 
 
    200,116
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

    Total    


 
    $
    (57,151
    )
 
    $
    (244,571
    )

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 



 
    Cash    Flows from Operating Activities


 
    Our operating activities provided net cash of    $109.0 million during 2005. This primarily resulted from    our net loss of $146.5 million, offset by non-cash    depreciation, amortization and interest expense included in net    loss.
 
    Cash    Flows from Investing Activities


 
    Our investing activities used approximately $56.2 million    during 2005. Cash flows from investing activities consisted    primarily of $86.7 million of investments in property and    equipment, offset by the release of approximately    $25.4 million that had previously been held in escrow.
 
    Cash    Flows from Financing Activities


 
    Our financing activities used approximately $109.9 million    during 2005. Cash flows from financing activities consists of    the payment of $100.0 million of principal outstanding    under our Credit Facility, and the payment of $9.9 million    of other debt and capital lease obligations.
 
    Our Credit Facility matures on July 15,    2009.
  There are no additional borrowings    available under the Credit Facility. As of December 31,    2005, more than 90% of the underlying loans of the Credit    Facility are held by an entity controlled by Mr. Icahn,    Chairman of the Company's Board of Directors. At    December 31, 2005, long-term debt consisted of    $300.8 million in principal and $0.3 million of    accrued interest that, if not paid, converts to principal. There    are no current debt service requirements since cash interest    payments as well as automatic and permanent quarterly reductions    on the principal amount outstanding do not commence until
        42
Table of Contents

    2009. However, in the event that consolidated excess cash flow    (as defined in the Credit Facility) for any fiscal quarter    during the term of the agreement is greater than    $25.0 million, at the request of the lender, we will pay an    amount equal to 50% of such excess cash flow greater than    $25.0 million toward the reduction of outstanding    indebtedness. In addition, if the ratio of our consolidated    earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization    (“EBITDA”) as defined in the Credit Facility, to    consolidated interest expense for four consecutive quarters    exceeds 4:1, we would be required to pay cash interest, unless    waived by the lenders. We can elect to begin paying interest in    cash prior to the required date. Loans under the Credit Facility    bear interest, at our option, at an alternate base rate, as    defined, or a Eurodollar rate plus, in each case, applicable    margins. Once we begin to pay accrued interest in cash, the    applicable margins are reduced. At December 31, 2005, the    annualized weighted average interest rate applicable to    outstanding borrowings under the Credit Facility was 9.41%.
 
    Our Credit Facility includes a financial covenant, the EBITDA    Covenant, requiring us to maintain minimum earnings before    interest, taxes, depreciation, and amortization, or EBITDA, for    the twelve-month period ending each fiscal quarter.    Additionally, the Credit Facility limits additional    indebtedness, liens, dividend payments, certain investments and    transactions, and maximum capital expenditures. We were not in    Compliance with the EBITDA Covenant in 2005 and based on current    financial results and our current business plan, we do not    expect to comply with the EBITDA Covenant in 2006. We have    obtained a waiver of the EBITDA Covenant through    December 31, 2006, but we can not be certain that we will    be able to obtain any further waivers of this, or any other,    covenant in our Credit Facility.
 
    We completed a prepayment of the outstanding indebtedness under    the Credit Facility of $100 million during the fourth    quarter of 2005. As part of the Wireline Sale, we have agreed to    prepay all but $75 million of the outstanding indebtedness    under the Credit Facility, and Elk Associates LLC has agreed to    assume that indebtedness as of the closing of the Wireline Sale.    The lenders under the Credit Facility have agreed to release us    from any further obligations under the Credit Facility upon our    making such prepayment.
 
    If we are not able to (i) amend the Credit Facility    covenant to remove the EBITDA Covenant or decrease the    requirement to a level we believe we can achieve,    (ii) obtain an extension on the waiver to at least    March 31, 2007, (iii) repay the Credit Facility with a    new debt or equity offering so that we are in compliance, or    (iv) complete the Wireline Sale and obtain the a release    from the lenders from all Credit Facility obligations, under the    current accounting guidelines we will be required to reclassify    all of the amounts due under the Credit Facility to short term    debt as of March 31, 2006 because the loan will be due and    payable on March 31, 2007. While the existing waivers    prevent the lenders under the Credit Facility from accelerating    repayment of the outstanding indebtedness under the Credit    Facility until March 31, 2007, this reclassification would    cause a significant deterioration to our disclosed working    capital and financial position. The security for the Credit    Facility consists of substantially all of our wireline and    wireless assets. A default under the Credit Facility could    adversely affect our rights under other commercial agreements.
 
    We expect that cash flows during 2006 will be generated largely    by the Wireline Sale. The proceeds from the Wireline Sale will    be used to repay the outstanding principal and interest under    the Credit Facility, other than $75 million to be assumed    by Buyer, to offer to redeem, at the closing of the Wireline    Sale, our outstanding preferred stock, and to fund growth and    development of the Wireless Business. Once the Wireline Sale is    completed, we will be debt-free and currently expect to have in    excess of $300 million in cash to fund our operations and    for other corporate purposes. Until the closing of the Wireline    Sale, we will continue to fund the operations of the Wireline    Business.
 
    After the close of the Wireline Sale, operating cash outflows    during 2006 will largely be for the expansion of the operations    of the Wireless Business as we develop the infrastructure    required to run the Wireless Business independently, including    the payment of certain fees to XO LLC under the Transition    Service Agreement (the “TSA”) entered into in    anticipation of the Wireline Sale. We expect that the majority    of our planned capital expenditures in 2006 will be used to grow    revenue by purchasing and installing customer-related equipment    and network electronics for either new customers or by adding    services provided to existing customers. Much of our non-success    based capital will be for the continued development and
        43
Table of Contents

    implementation of our information systems in support of our back    office infrastructure. We believe that our cash resources are    sufficient to fund our operations and capital expenditures at    least through 2006.
 
    Contractual    Obligations


 
    The Wireline Business has a national network which requires    various ongoing maintenance costs and software licenses and fees    so that we can continue to provide high quality    telecommunication services to our customers. Where we do not    have our own network to provide telecommunication services we    pay access rights and use fees to other service providers. To    achieve the most cost efficient rates, we often commit to a    multi-year purchase for these services and licenses. We are    leasing premises for use in the Wireline Business under various    noncancelable operating leases for administrative space,    building access, and other leases, which, in addition to rental    payments, require payments for insurance, maintenance, property    taxes and other executory costs related to the leases. The lease    agreements have various expiration dates through 2019.
 
    Additionally, we have entered into various contracts with other    telecommunications companies in which we have certain minimum    purchase commitments. These contracts have terms of 36 to    60 months.
 
    The Wireless Business has not yet entered into any long-term    contractual obligations, although we anticipate entering into    long-term contractual obligations for office space and roof    rights as that business expands.
 
    The following table summarizes our payment obligations under    various operating and financing agreements as of    December 31, 2005 (dollars in thousands):
 
     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	
 
 
 
 
 
    Other    


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
    long-term    


 
 
    Operating    


 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
    Credit    


 
 
    contractual    


 
 
    lease    


 
 
    Capital lease    


 
 
    Total    


 

    Year Ending    December 31,



 
    Facility


 
 
    obligations


 
 
    obligations


 
 
    obligations


 
 
    obligations


 

 

    2006    


 
    $
    —
 
 
    $
    82,800
 
 
    $
    69,932
 
 
    $
    4,537
 
 
    $
    157,269
 

    2007    


 
 
    —
 
 
 
    79,535
 
 
 
    64,965
 
 
 
    3,854
 
 
 
    148,354
 

    2008    


 
 
    —
 
 
 
    68,513
 
 
 
    54,327
 
 
 
    2,398
 
 
 
    125,238
 

    2009    


 
 
    301,113
 
 
 
    44,573
 
 
 
    46,432
 
 
 
    1,770
 
 
 
    393,888
 

    2010    


 
 
    —
 
 
 
    15,688
 
 
 
    39,838
 
 
 
    1,419
 
 
 
    56,945
 

    Thereafter    


 
 
    —
 
 
 
    87,322
 
 
 
    125,873
 
 
 
    12,491
 
 
 
    225,686
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

    Total minimum commitments    


 
    $
    301,113
 
 
    $
    378,431
 
 
    $
    401,367
 
 
    $
    26,469
 
 
    $
    1,107,380
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 



 
    All of the contractual obligations in the table above will be    transferred to Buyer at the close of the Wireline Sale with the    exception of amounts due under the Credit Facility, of which    only $75 million will be assumed by the Buyer.
 
    In February 2006 we entered into an agreement to purchase    certain telecommunications equipment. The agreement requires    total payments of $10 million to be paid in 6 installments    beginning in March 2006 and ending in April 2007.
 
    RESULTS    OF OPERATIONS


 
    Overview


 
    Historically, we have operated our business as one    telecommunications segment. As a result of the strategic    decision to enter into the Wireline Sale, we anticipate    internally analyzing and reporting separately on the results of    operations of the Wireline Business and the Wireless Business    beginning in 2006 and, accordingly, those business units will be    reported as “segments”, as required under Statement of    Financial Accounting Standards No. 131, “Disclosures    about Segments of an Enterprise and Related Information”,    or SFAS No. 131, at that time.
 
    A summary in the section entitled “Comparison of    Consolidated Financial Results” of our consolidated results    is below, and is followed by a discussion of the consolidated    financial results. We discuss our business
        44
Table of Contents

    unit results in more detail in the section entitled    “Comparison of Business Unit Financial Results”. The    amounts include the results of operations of the Allegiance    telecommunication services assets, which we refer to as the    Acquired Businesses, since June 23, 2004.
 
    On November 4, 2005, we entered into the Wireline Sale in    order to focus on the development of our Wireless Business. In    the event that the Wireline Sale is consummated, our revenues    will initially consist of those from two customers and will    initially be insignificant. Additionally, our costs and expenses    will be substantially reduced as the Wireline Business will    employ all but approximately 32 of our current employees, will    be responsible for substantially all of our current contractual    obligations, including all of our current operating lease    obligations, and will be the owner of substantially all of our    property, plant and equipment. The Wireless Business will    continue to incur costs associated with being a public company,    including insurance, audit and Sarbanes Oxley compliance, and    legal and regulatory professional services, although we expect    the level of those costs and expenses to decrease as a result of    the reduced operations. We expect the Wireless Business will    generate the majority of its cash inflows in 2006 from the    income on its cash and cash equivalents.
 
    Our results of operations data table follows (dollars in    thousands, except share data).
 
     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	
 
 
    2005


 
 
    2004


 
 
    2003


 

 

    Revenue    


 
    $
    1,433,622
 
 
 
    100.0
    %
 
    $
    1,300,420
 
 
 
    100.0
    %
 
    $
    1,110,483
 
 
 
    100.0
    %

    Costs and expenses:    


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

    Cost of service (exclusive of    depreciation and amortization)    


 
 
    587,904
 
 
 
    41.0
    %
 
 
    552,735
 
 
 
    42.5
    %
 
 
    422,129
 
 
 
    38.0
    %

    Selling, operating and general    


 
 
    737,350
 
 
 
    51.4
    %
 
 
    727,666
 
 
 
    56.0
    %
 
 
    679,286
 
 
 
    61.2
    %

    Depreciation and amortization    


 
 
    234,762
 
 
 
    16.4
    %
 
 
    177,781
 
 
 
    13.7
    %
 
 
    109,308
 
 
 
    9.8
    %

    Goodwill impairment charge    


 
 
    —
 
 
 
    0.0
    %
 
 
    212,530
 
 
 
    16.3
    %
 
 
    —
 
 
 
 
 

    Restructuring    


 
 
    —
 
 
 
    0.0
    %
 
 
    —
 
 
 
    0.0
    %
 
 
    11,618
 
 
 
    1.1
    %

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

    Total costs and expenses    


 
 
    1,560,016
 
 
 
    108.8
    %
 
 
    1,670,712
 
 
 
    128.5
    %
 
 
    1,222,341
 
 
 
    110.1
    %

    Loss from operations    


 
 
    (126,394
    )
 
 
    (8.8
    )%
 
 
    (370,292
    )
 
 
    (28.5
    )%
 
 
    (111,858
    )
 
 
    (10.1
    )%

    Interest income, net    


 
 
    8,850
 
 
 
    0.6
    %
 
 
    3,682
 
 
 
    0.3
    %
 
 
    10,365
 
 
 
    0.9
    %

    Investment income (loss), net    


 
 
    1,950
 
 
 
    0.1
    %
 
 
    (12,719
    )
 
 
    (1.0
    )%
 
 
    35,787
 
 
 
    3.2
    %

    Interest expense, net    


 
 
    (34,291
    )
 
 
    (2.4
    )%
 
 
    (26,214
    )
 
 
    (2.0
    )%
 
 
    (36,848
    )
 
 
    (3.3
    )%

    Other non-operating gain    


 
 
    3,380
 
 
 
    0.6
    %
 
 
    —
 
 
 
    0.0
    %
 
 
    —
 
 
 
    0.0
    %

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

    Net loss    


 
 
    (146,505
    )
 
 
    (10.2
    )%
 
 
    (405,543
    )
 
 
    (31.2
    )%
 
 
    (102,554
    )
 
 
    (9.2
    )%

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

    Preferred stock accretion    


 
 
    (12,703
    )
 
 
    (0.9
    )%
 
 
    (4,910
    )
 
 
    (0.4
    )%
 
 
    —
 
 
 
    0.0
    %

    Net loss applicable to common    shares    


 
 
    (159,208
    )
 
 
    (11.1
    )%
 
 
    (410,453
    )
 
 
    (31.6
    )%
 
 
    (102,554
    )
 
 
    (9.2
    )%

    Net loss per common share, basic    and diluted    


 
 
    (0.88
    )
 
 
 
 
 
 
    (2.57
    )
 
 
 
 
 
 
    (1.07
    )
 
 
 
 

    Weighted average shares    outstanding, basic and diluted    


 
 
    181,933,035
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    159,883,403
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    95,632,859
 
 
 
 
 

    Gross margin (1)    


 
 
    845,718
 
 
 
    59.0
    %
 
 
    747,685
 
 
 
    57.5
    %
 
 
    688,354
 
 
 
    62.0
    %

    EBITDA (2)    


 
    $
    113,698
 
 
 
    7.9
    %
 
    $
    (205,230
    )
 
 
    (15.8
    )%
 
    $
    33,237
 
 
 
    3.0
    %



 

 
    
    
    

        (1)    

    
        Gross margin is defined as revenue    less cost of service, and excludes depreciation and    amortization. Gross margin is not intended to replace operating    income (loss), net income (loss), cash flow and other measures    of financial performance reported in accordance with generally    accepted accounting principles in the United States. Rather,    gross margin is an important measure used by management to    assess operating performance of the Company. Additionally, we    believe that gross margin is a standard measure of operating    performance that is commonly reported and widely used by    analysts, investors, and other interested parties in the    



        45
Table of Contents

    
    
    

    
    
        telecommunications industry. Gross    margin as used in this document may not be comparable to    similarly titled measures reported by other companies due to    differences in accounting policies. A reconciliation between    gross margin and net loss is as follows:    



 
     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	
 
 
    Year Ended December    31,


 

 
 
    2005


 
 
    2004


 
 
    2003


 

 

    Net loss    


 
    $
    (146,505
    )
 
    $
    (405,543
    )
 
    $
    (102,554
    )

    Selling, operating and general    


 
 
    737,350
 
 
 
    727,666
 
 
 
    679,286
 

    Depreciation and amortization    


 
 
    234,762
 
 
 
    177,781
 
 
 
    109,308
 

    Goodwill impairment charge    


 
 
    —
 
 
 
    212,530
 
 
 
    —
 

    Restructuring    


 
 
    —
 
 
 
    —
 
 
 
    11,618
 

    Interest income    


 
 
    (8,850
    )
 
 
    (3,682
    )
 
 
    (10,365
    )

    Investment (income) loss, net    


 
 
    (1,950
    )
 
 
    12,719
 
 
 
    (35,787
    )

    Interest expense, net    


 
 
    34,291
 
 
 
    26,214
 
 
 
    36,848
 

    Other non-operating gain    


 
 
    (3,380
    )
 
 
    —
 
 
 
    —
 

    Gross margin    


 
    $
    845,718
 
 
    $
    747,685
 
 
    $
    688,354
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 



 

 
    
    
    

        (2)    

    
        EBITDA is defined as net income or    loss before depreciation, amortization, interest expense, and    interest income. EBITDA is not intended to replace operating    income (loss), net income (loss), cash flow and other measures    of financial performance reported in accordance with generally    accepted accounting principles in the United States. Rather,    EBITDA is an important measure used by management to assess    operating performance of the company. EBITDA as used in this    document may not be comparable to similarly titled measures    reported by other companies due to differences in accounting    policies. Additionally, EBITDA as defined here does not have the    same meaning as EBITDA as defined in our Credit Facility    agreement. EBITDA in 2004 includes a non-cash goodwill    impairment charge of $212.5 million. When evaluating our    financial performance we exclude this charge, and generally    exclude other charges and income that are not directly    attributable to the provision of service to our customers. A    reconciliation between EBITDA and net loss is as follows:    



 
     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	
 
 
    Year Ended December    31,


 

 
 
    2005


 
 
    2004


 
 
    2003


 

 

    Net loss    


 
    $
    (146,505
    )
 
    $
    (405,543
    )
 
    $
    (102,554
    )

    Interest income    


 
 
    (8,850
    )
 
 
    (3,682
    )
 
 
    (10,365
    )

    Interest expense, net    


 
 
    34,291
 
 
 
    26,214
 
 
 
    36,848
 

    Depreciation and amortization    


 
 
    234,762
 
 
 
    177,781
 
 
 
    109,308
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

    EBITDA    


 
    $
    113,698
 
 
    $
    (205,230
    )
 
    $
    33,237
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 



 
    Comparison    of Consolidated Financial Results


 
    The consolidated financial results for the years ended    December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003 are discussed below.
 
    Year    Ended December 31, 2005 Compared to Year Ended    December 31, 2004


 
    Revenue.
  Total revenue for the year ending    December 31, 2005 increased 10.2% to $1,434 million    from $1,300 million for the year ending December 31,    2004. The 2004 financial results include approximately    $217.2 million of revenue from the Acquired Businesses,    whose results have been consolidated from June 23, 2004    onwards. Following the Wireline Sale, our revenue will be    substantially lower than our historical revenue, as our Wireless    Business is at an early stage of development. In addition, the    Wireline Business will be reported as a discontinued operation.    The accounting for discontinued operations requires that all    revenues and expenses directly attributable to the disposed    business be presented net, as a single line item in the    statements of operations for all periods presented. Therefore,    when the Wireline Business is reclassified as a discontinued    operation, revenues of $1,433,416 for the year ended    December 31, 2005, which are directly attributed to the    Wireline Business, will be reclassified to discontinued    operations. All revenues for the years ended December 31,    2004 and 2003 will be classified as discontinued operations. If    the Wireline Sale is not consummated, we will expect revenue to    decrease slightly as compared to 2005 results.
        46
Table of Contents

    Revenue was earned from providing the following services    (dollars in thousands):
 
     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	
 
 
    Year Ended    


 
 
    Year Ended    


 
 
 
 

 
 
    December 31,


 
 
    December 31,


 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
    % of 2005    


 
 
 
 
 
    % of 2004    


 
 
 
 

 
 
    2005


 
 
    Revenue


 
 
    2004


 
 
    Revenue


 
 
    % Change


 

 

    Voice services    


 
    $
    734,412
 
 
 
    51.2
    %
 
    $
    673,318
 
 
 
    51.8
    %
 
 
    9.1
    %

    Data services    


 
 
    432,358
 
 
 
    30.2
    %
 
 
    414,782
 
 
 
    31.9
    %
 
 
    4.2
    %

    Integrated voice and data services    


 
 
    266,852
 
 
 
    18.6
    %
 
 
    212,320
 
 
 
    16.3
    %
 
 
    25.7
    %

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

    Total revenue    


 
    $
    1,433,622
 
 
 
    100.0
    %
 
    $
    1,300,420
 
 
 
    100.0
    %
 
 
    10.2
    %

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 



 
    Voice services revenue includes revenue from local and long    distance voice services, prepaid calling card processing,    interactive voice response services, stand-alone long distance    services and other voice telecommunications based services. Our    2004 results included $10.1 million in ILEC settlements.    Voice services revenue for the year ended December 31, 2005    increased $61.1 million or 9.1% from 2004 results. This    increase was primarily due to the inclusion of revenue from the    Acquired Businesses and the implementation of price increases.    These increases were partially offset by the FCC mandated    carrier access rate decreases, a decline in certain small    customer bases in which we are no longer actively selling and    the ILEC settlement referenced above.
 
    Data services revenue includes revenue from Internet access,    network access and web applications hosting services. Data    services revenue for the year ended December 31, 2005    increased $17.6 million or 4.2% from 2004 results.    Substantially all of the increase is attributable to the    inclusion of the Acquired Businesses, offset by churn of    de-emphasized products such as DSL,    dial-up
    internet access and web hosting.
 
    Integrated voice and data services revenue is attributed to our    XOptions, XOptions Flex and Total Communications service    offerings, our flat-rate bundled packages offering a combination    of voice and data services and integrated access. Integrated    voice and data services revenue for the year ended    December 31, 2005 increased $54.5 million or 25.7%    from 2004. Substantially all of the increase is attributable to    the inclusion of the Acquired Businesses in the results for the    year ended December 31, 2005.
 
    Costs and expenses.
  The table below provides    costs and expenses by classification (dollars in thousands).
 
     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	
 
 
    Year Ended    


 
 
    Year Ended    


 
 
 
 

 
 
    December 31,


 
 
    December 31,


 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
    % of 2005    


 
 
 
 
 
    % of 2004    


 
 
 
 

 
 
    2005


 
 
    Revenue


 
 
    2004


 
 
    Revenue


 
 
    % Change


 

 

    Costs and expenses:    


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

    Cost of service    


 
    $
    587,904
 
 
 
    41.0
    %
 
    $
    552,735
 
 
 
    42.5
    %
 
 
    6.4
    %

    Selling, operating and general    


 
 
    737,350
 
 
 
    51.4
    %
 
 
    727,666
 
 
 
    56.0
    %
 
 
    1.3
    %

    Depreciation and amortization    


 
 
    234,762
 
 
 
    16.4
    %
 
 
    177,781
 
 
 
    13.7
    %
 
 
    32.1
    %

    Goodwill impairment charge    


 
 
    —
 
 
 
    0.0
    %
 
 
    212,530
 
 
 
    16.3
    %
 
 
    (100.0
    %)

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

    Total    


 
    $
    1,560,016
 
 
 
    108.8
    %
 
    $
    1,670,712
 
 
 
    128.5
    %
 
 
    (6.6
    %)

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 



 
    Cost of service (exclusive of depreciation and    amortization).

  Cost of service includes    expenses directly associated with providing telecommunications    services to our customers. Cost of service includes, among other    items, the cost of connecting customers to our network via    leased facilities, the costs of leasing components of our    network facilities and costs paid to third party service    providers for interconnect access and transport services. Cost    of service as a percentage of revenue for the year ended    December 31, 2005 decreased as compared to the same periods    in 2004. The decrease reflects the benefits from the integration    of the Acquired Businesses, favorable dispute resolutions,    settlements, and estimate revisions, offset by the adverse    impact from the Triennial Review Remand Order, or TRRO,    discussed in the “Regulatory Overview” section above,    and reduced revenues. The favorable dispute resolutions,    settlements and estimate revisions resulted in
        47
Table of Contents

    reductions in cost of service of approximately    $40.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2005    versus $8.9 million for the year ended December 31,    2004.
 
    Cost of service will be adversely impacted due to the recently    enacted regulatory rules on unbundled network element, or UNE,    loop and transport rates as discussed in the “Regulatory    Overview” section above. The UNE and transport rate    increases will be phased in during 2005 and the first quarter of    2006. We expect these increases to have a total annualized    impact, including transitional and special access rates, of    approximately $75 million by the end of the first quarter    of 2006. However, we believe that actions we are taking,    including negotiating rate reductions, aggressive use of ILEC    Special Access term plans, and network optimization will offset    much of these increases. In the event that the Wireline Sale is    consummated, our 2006 cost of service will be substantially    reduced. In addition, our Wireline Business will be reported as    a discontinued operation. The accounting for discontinued    operations requires that all revenues and expenses directly    attributable to the disposed business be presented net, as a    single line item in the statements of operations for all periods    presented. Therefore, when the Wireline Business is reclassified    as a discontinued operation, all of our costs of service,    excluding depreciation and amortization, will be reclassified to    discontinued operations for the years ended December 31,    2005, 2004, and 2003. In the event the Wireline Sale is not    consummated, we expect 2006 cost of service to increase, largely    as a result of the UNE and transport rate increases discussed    above.
 
    Selling, operating and    general.

  Selling, operating and general    expense includes expenses related to network maintenance, sales    and marketing, network operations and engineering, information    systems, general corporate office functions and collection    risks. Selling, operating and general expense for the year ended    December 31, 2005 was $737.4 million or 51.4% of    revenue versus $727.7 million or 56.0% of revenue for the    year ended December 31, 2004. The improvements as a    percentage of revenue are largely attributable to the synergies    obtained through the integration of the Acquired Businesses, as    well as savings from the integration of back office systems and    the consolidation of functions. Our 2005 results also include an    adjustment of $7.8 million to increase selling, operating    and general expenses as a result of the misapplication of    generally accepted accounting principles pertaining to lease    escalation provisions since our emergence from bankruptcy in    January 2003. The impact of these adjustments would have    increased selling operating and general expense by approximately    $3.3 million and $4.5 million for the years ended    December 31, 2004 and 2003, respectively, had they been    recorded in the appropriate periods. Our 2004 selling, operating    and general expenses are reduced due to favorable settlements of    $11.9 million related to franchise fees and other matters.
 
    In the event that the Wireline Sale is consummated, Selling,    Operating and General expenses will be reduced substantially as    substantially all of our costs are either directly or indirectly    incurred in support of the Wireline Business. In the event the    Wireline Sale is not consummated, we expect Selling, Operating    and General expenses to decline both in absolute terms and as a    percentage of revenue.
 
    Depreciation and    amortization.

  Depreciation expense was    $185.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2005,    compared to $140.1 million for the same period in 2004.    Amortization expense was $49.2 million for the year ended    December 31, 2005, compared to $37.7 million for the    same period in 2004. Substantially all of the increases in    depreciation and amortization for the year ended    December 31, 2005 are attributable to the acquisition of    the Acquired Businesses.
 
    As of December 31, 2005, we had approximately    $95.4 million of property and equipment and    $23.5 million of broadband wireless licenses that have not    yet been placed into service and, accordingly, are not currently    being depreciated or amortized. We expect to reduce the property    and equipment and broadband wireless licenses not currently in    service during 2006 as we begin to light the intercity network    and expand the Wireless Business.
 
    Goodwill impairment charge.

  We retained    independent appraisers to perform a preliminary valuation of our    assets and liabilities as of December 31, 2004. This    valuation was necessary as our fair value of our net assets, as    determined by our stock price, was less than our book value.    Based on this appraisal we recorded a $212.5 million    non-cash impairment charge on our goodwill at December 31,    2004. There were no impairment charges in 2005.
        48
Table of Contents

    Interest income, net.

  Interest income    for 2005 increased to $8.9 million from $3.7 million    in 2004. The increase in interest income is due to an increase    in the amount of cash and cash equivalents invested resulting    from our convertible preferred stock offering in August 2004 and    an increase in interest rates.
 
    Investment income (loss),    net.

  Investment income (loss), net includes    any realized gains or losses from the sale or other than    temporary impairment of investments. For 2005 we reported net    investment income of $2.0 million while we reported net    investment loss of $12.7 million in 2004. The improvement    is largely due to realized gains on investments in 2005 that    were not present in 2004.
 
    Interest expense, net.

  Interest    expense, net includes interest expense on debt and capital    leases, less any amounts capitalized. Interest expense, net for    the year ended December 31, 2005 and 2004 was    $34.3 million and $26.2 million, respectively. The    increase in interest expense is due to an increase in interest    rates, as well as the compounding effect of the conversion of    accrued interest to principal. During 2005 and 2004, we    capitalized interest of $4.0 million.
 
    In the event that the Wireline Sale is consummated, Interest    expense, net will be substantially reduced as we will be    required to pay off our Credit Facility with the proceeds from    the Wireline Sale.
 
    Year    Ended December 31, 2004 Compared to Year Ended    December 31, 2003


 
    Revenue.

  Total revenue for the year    ending December 31, 2004 increased 17.1% to    $1,300.4 million from $1,110.5 million for the year    ending December 31, 2003. The 2004 financial results    include approximately $217.2 million of revenue from the    Acquired Businesses. Without the revenue from the Acquired    Businesses our 2004 revenue decreased $27.3 million or 2.5%    from 2003 results. Customer churn and continued pricing    pressures, particularly in carrier long distance, offset revenue    growth from new customers. Customer churn is driven by a highly    competitive environment, large customers downsizing their    telecom needs, and our de-emphasis on products like DSL, Hosting    and Dial-up
    to allow our sales resources to focus on larger customers and    more profitable products. We expect 2005 annualized revenue to    be consistent with our fourth quarter 2004 results.
 
    Revenue was earned from providing the following services    (dollars in thousands):
 
     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	
 
 
    Year Ended    


 
 
    Year Ended    


 
 
 
 

 
 
    December 31,


 
 
    December 31,


 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
    % of 2004    


 
 
 
 
 
    % of 2003    


 
 
 
 

 
 
    2004


 
 
    Revenue


 
 
    2003


 
 
    Revenue


 
 
    % Change


 

 

    Voice services    


 
    $
    673,318
 
 
 
    51.8
    %
 
    $
    572,774
 
 
 
    51.6
    %
 
 
    17.6
    %

    Data services    


 
 
    414,782
 
 
 
    31.9
    %
 
 
    392,742
 
 
 
    35.4
    %
 
 
    5.6
    %

    Integrated voice and data services    


 
 
    212,320
 
 
 
    16.3
    %
 
 
    144,967
 
 
 
    13.0
    %
 
 
    46.5
    %

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

    Total revenue    


 
    $
    1,300,420
 
 
 
    100.0
    %
 
    $
    1,110,483
 
 
 
    100.0
    %
 
 
    17.1
    %

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 



 
    Voice services revenue includes revenue from local and long    distance voice services, prepaid calling card processing,    interactive voice response services, stand-alone long distance    services and other voice telecommunications based services. Our    2004 results include approximately $127.0 million of voice    services revenue from the Acquired Businesses. Voice services    revenue for the year ended December 31, 2004 exclusive of    voice services revenue from the Acquired Businesses, decreased    $26.5 million or 4.6% from 2003 results. The decrease is    attributable to customer churn, competitive pricing pressures,    particularly long distance, and reduced FCC mandated rates.
 
    Data services revenue includes revenue from Internet access,    network access and web applications hosting services. Our 2004    results include approximately $32.2 million of data    services revenue from the Acquired Businesses. Data services    revenue for the year ended December 31, 2004 exclusive of    data services revenue from the Acquired Businesses decreased    $10.1 million or 2.6% from 2003 results. The decrease was    attributable to an increase in customer churn due to network    downsizing from high end customers and our deemphasizing certain    less profitable products such as DSL, dial up, and hosting    services.
        49
Table of Contents

    Integrated voice and data services revenue is attributed to our    XOptions and Total Communications service offerings, XO's    flat-rate bundled packages offering a combination of voice and    data services and integrated access. Our 2004 results include    approximately $58.0 million of integrated voice and data    services revenue from the Acquired Businesses. Integrated voice    and data services revenue for the year ended December 31,    2004 exclusive of services revenue from the Acquired Businesses    increased $9.3 million or 6.4% from 2003 results due to    growth in our integrated access services, as well as our    XOptions service offering.
 
    Costs and expenses.

  The table below    provides costs and expenses by classification and as a    percentage of revenue (dollars in thousands). Our consolidated    costs and expenses in 2004 include the costs to run the Acquired    Businesses since June 23, 2004.
 
     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	
 
 
    Year Ended    


 
 
    Year Ended    


 
 
 
 

 
 
    December 31,


 
 
    December 31,


 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
    % of 2004    


 
 
 
 
 
    % of 2003    


 
 
 
 

 
 
    2004


 
 
    Revenue


 
 
    2003


 
 
    Revenue


 
 
    % Change


 

 

    Costs and expenses:    


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

    Cost of service    


 
    $
    552,735
 
 
 
    42.5
    %
 
    $
    422,129
 
 
 
    38.0
    %
 
 
    30.9
    %

    Selling, operating and general    


 
 
    727,666
 
 
 
    56.0
    %
 
 
    679,286
 
 
 
    61.2
    %
 
 
    7.1
    %

    Depreciation and amortization    


 
 
    177,781
 
 
 
    13.7
    %
 
 
    109,308
 
 
 
    9.8
    %
 
 
    62.6
    %

    Goodwill impairment charge    


 
 
    212,530
 
 
 
    16.3
    %
 
 
    —
 
 
 
    0.0
    %
 
 
    100.0
    %

    Restructuring and asset write-downs    


 
 
    —
 
 
 
    0.0
    %
 
 
    11,618
 
 
 
    1.1
    %
 
 
    (100.0
    %)

 
 
 
    —
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

    Total    


 
    $
    1,670,712
 
 
 
    128.5
    %
 
    $
    1,222,341
 
 
 
    110.1
    %
 
 
    36.7
    %

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 



 
    Cost of service.

  Cost of service    includes expenses directly associated with providing    telecommunications services to our customers. Cost of service    includes, among other items, the cost of connecting customers to    our networks via leased facilities, the costs of leasing    components of our network facilities and costs paid to third    party service providers for interconnect access and transport    services. Cost of service as a percentage of revenue for the    year ended December 31, 2004 increased as compared to the    same period in 2003 due to the impact of pricing pressures from    both mandated FCC carrier access rate reductions and general    pricing reductions on revenue, as well as an unfavorable shift    in traffic mix for terminations, offset by savings from    synergies associated with the integration of the Acquired    Business.
 
    Selling, operating and    general.

  Selling, operating and general    expense includes expenses related to network maintenance, sales    and marketing, network operations and engineering, information    systems, general corporate office functions and collection    risks. Selling, operating and general expense for the year ended    December 31, 2004 was $727.7 million or 56.0% of    revenue versus $679.3 million or 61.2% of revenue for the    year ended December 31, 2003. The decrease in selling,    operating and general expense as a percentage of revenue for the    year ended December 31, 2004 when compared to 2003 results    is due to the achievement of synergies related to the Acquired    Businesses. Our 2004 selling, operating and general expenses are    reduced due to favorable settlements of $11.9 million    related to franchise fees and other matters.
 
    Depreciation and    amortization.

  Depreciation and amortization    expense was $177.8 million for the year ended    December 31, 2004, and $109.3 million for the year    ended December 31, 2003. The increase is largely due to the    inclusion of fixed assets and intangibles of the Acquired    Businesses.
 
    Goodwill impairment charge.

  We retained    independent appraisers to perform a preliminary valuation of our    assets and liabilities as of December 31, 2004. This    valuation was necessary as our fair value as determined by our    stock price, was less than our book value. Based on this    appraisal we recorded a $212.5 million non-cash impairment    charge on our goodwill.
 
    Restructuring and asset    write-downs.

  Restructuring and asset    write-downs were $11.6 million for the year ended    December 31, 2003. Restructuring charges in 2003 included    costs for a reduction in our workforce by approximately 550    employees and estimated losses associated with restructured    leases.
        50
Table of Contents

    Interest income, net.

  Interest income    for 2004 decreased to $3.7 million from $10.4 million    in 2003.
 
    Investment income (loss),    net.

  Investment income (loss), net includes    any realized gains or losses from the sale or other than    temporary impairment of investments. For 2004 we reported a net    investment loss of $12.7 million while we reported net    investment income of $35.8 million in 2003. The 2004 amount    includes a $10.4 million impairment adjustment on an    investment that was considered to be other than temporary. The    2003 amount is primarily from a gain on the sale of an    investment.
 
    Interest expense, net.

  Interest    expense, net includes interest expense on debt and capital    leases, less any amounts capitalized. The majority of interest    expense in 2004 and 2003 is non-cash as our Credit Facility    allows for accrued interest to be converted into principal if    unpaid. Interest expense, net for the years ended    December 31, 2004 and 2003 was $26.2 million and    $36.8 million, respectively. The significant reduction for    2004 was due to a $197.6 million repayment of outstanding    principal under the Credit Facility in January 2004. During 2004    and 2003, we capitalized interest of $4.0 million and    $3.0 million, respectively.
 
    Comparison    of Business Unit Financial Results


 
    Overview


 
    Our business units, the Wireless Business and the Wireline    Business, are strategic business units that offer    telecommunications services delivered using different    technologies to different target customers. We make decisions    about our business units based on the return that we expect to    achieve by investing capital. We do not allocate general    corporate overhead costs, which were approximately    $185.4 million and $152.6 million for the years ended    December 31, 2005 and 2004, respectively, between the two    business units. We believe, however, that substantially all of    the general overhead expenses were incurred in support of the    Wireline Business. Interest expense, interest income, investment    income (loss), and other non-operating income are managed only    on a consolidated basis and, accordingly, are not reflected in    either of our business units' results.
 
    The Wireline Business accounted for substantially all of our    revenues for the year ended December 31, 2005, accounted    for all of our revenues for the years ended December 31,    2004 and 2003, and accounted for substantially all of our costs    for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003.    Because the Wireless Business did not have significant    operations prior to 2004, 2003 information has not been    presented as it is not practicable to do so. Please refer to the    discussion under the heading “Comparison of Consolidated    Financial Results” for information regarding the 2004 and    2003 results of operations.
 
    Tables summarizing the business unit results and the related    analyses of the results of operations for the respective    business units are included under the headings “Wireless    Business” and “Wireline Business” below.
 
    Wireline    Business



 
    Overview


 
    Our Wireline Business provides voice services, data services and    integrated voice and data services. These services utilize    similar network assets, operations, and technology, and are sold    through similar sales channels to a similar targeted customer    base. Accordingly, we manage these services as a single business    in geographic areas, or markets, within the United States in    which we operate.
        51
Table of Contents

    A table summarizing the direct results of the Wireline Business    which excludes general corporate overhead of approximately    $185.4 million and $152.6 million for the years ended    December 31, 2005 and 2004, respectively, is below (dollars    in thousands):
 
     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	
 
 
    Year Ended    December 31,


 
 
    Percentage    


 

 
 
    2005


 
 
    2004


 
 
    Change


 

 

    Business unit revenue    


 
    $
    1,433,416
 
 
    $
    1,300,420
 
 
 
    10.2
    %

    Business unit costs and expenses:    


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

    Cost of service (exclusive of    depreciation and amortization)    


 
 
    587,904
 
 
 
    552,735
 
 
 
    6.4
    %

    Selling, operating and general    (excluding general corporate overhead)    


 
 
    548,705
 
 
 
    574,312
 
 
 
    (4.5
    %)

    Depreciation and amortization    


 
 
    228,435
 
 
 
    171,454
 
 
 
    33.2
    %

    Goodwill impairment charge    


 
 
    —
 
 
 
    212,530
 
 
 
    (100.0
    %)

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

    Total business unit costs and    expenses    


 
 
    1,365,044
 
 
 
    1,511,031
 
 
 
    (9.7
    %)

    Business unit income (loss)    


 
    $
    68,372
 
 
    $
    (210,611
    )
 
 
    *
 



 

 
    
    

        * 
        Not meaningful


 
    Because the Wireline Business earns substantially all of our    revenues and incurs substantially all of our costs, the    discussion under the heading “Comparison of Consolidated    Financial Results” above may be used to explain the    comparison of financial results for the Wireline Business.
 
    Wireless    Business



 
    Overview


 
    The Wireless Business began operating as a separate cost center    during 2003, primarily incurring personnel costs to research    methods to increase the utilization of our fixed wireless    licenses. These activities continued on a small scale through    2004. In April 2005 we signed our first Wireless Business    service contract, whereby we agreed to provide    telecommunications services to a national wireless    telecommunications service provider (“the Wireless    Customer”) in Florida. We began providing services under    that contract during the third quarter of 2005.
 
    As discussed further in the section titled “Wireline    Sale” in Item 1 above, on November 4, 2005 we    reached an agreement to sell our Wireline Business to focus    wholly on our Wireless Business.
 
    A table summarizing the direct results of the Wireless Business,    which excludes general corporate overhead of approximately    $185.4 million and $152.6 million for the years ended    December 31, 2005 and 2004, respectively, is below (dollars    in thousands):
 
     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	
 
 
    Year Ended    December 31,


 
 
    Percentage    


 

 
 
    2005


 
 
    2004


 
 
    Change


 

 

    Business unit revenue    


 
    $
    206
 
 
    $
    —
 
 
 
 
 

    Business unit costs and expenses:    


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

    Selling, operating and general    (excluding general corporate overhead)    


 
 
    3,261
 
 
 
    801
 
 
 
    307.1
    %

    Depreciation and amortization    


 
 
    6,327
 
 
 
    6,327
 
 
 
    0.0
    %

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

    Total business unit costs and    expenses    


 
 
    9,588
 
 
 
    7,128
 
 
 
    34.5
    %

    Business unit loss    


 
    $
    (9,382
    )
 
    $
    (7,128
    )
 
 
    31.6
    %

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 



        52
Table of Contents

    Year    Ended December 31, 2005 Compared to Year Ended    December 31, 2004


 
    Revenue.

  Revenue of the Wireless    Business for the year ending December 31, 2005 was $206    thousand. All of the revenue was earned through our contract    with the Wireless Customer. The Wireless Business did not    generate any revenue during 2004.
 
    We expect 2006 revenues to increase relative to 2005 as we add    customers and expand the scope of the services under our    contract with the Wireless Customer. However, because of the    nature of our target customers, which are generally large, our    success, or lack thereof, in executing new service contracts and    retaining customers may cause significant fluctuations in our    revenue.
 
    Costs and expenses.

  The table below    provides costs and expenses by classification (dollars in    thousands).
 
     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	
 
 
    Year Ended    December 31,


 
 
 
 

 
 
    2005


 
 
    2004


 
 
    % Change


 

 

    Business unit costs and expenses:    


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

    Selling, operating and general    


 
    $
    3,261
 
 
    $
    801
 
 
 
    307.1
    %

    Depreciation and amortization    


 
 
    6,327
 
 
 
    6,327
 
 
 
    0.0
    %

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

    Total business unit costs and    expenses    


 
    $
    9,588
 
 
    $
    7,128
 
 
 
    34.5
    %

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 



 
    Selling, operating and    general.

  Selling, operating and general    expenses of the Wireless Business includes expenses related to    sales and marketing, network operations, engineering, and    certain general corporate office functions dedicated to the    Wireless Business, and do not include general corporate overhead    costs that indirectly benefit the Wireless Business. Selling,    operating and general expense of the Wireless Business for the    year ended December 31, 2005 was $3.3 million versus    $0.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2004. The    increase in selling, operating and general expenses of the    Wireless Business for the year ended December 31, 2005 when    compared to 2004 results is due to our expansion of the    operations of the Wireless Business.
 
    Following the sale of the Wireline Business, the Wireless    Business will continue to incur costs associated with being a    public company, including insurance, audit and Sarbanes Oxley    compliance, and legal and regulatory professional services and    will incur certain costs under a transition services agreement    with the Wireline Business. Additionally, after the Wireline    Sale the Wireless Business will assume certain contingent assets    and contingent liabilities, and will be responsible for    incurring the related costs. Because we do not allocate general    corporate overhead costs between our business units, the related    costs and expenses incurred during the years ended    December 31, 2005 and 2004, are not included in the    selling, operating and general costs of the Wireless Business    above.
 
    We believe that, selling, operating and general expense of the    Wireless Business will increase in absolute dollars when    compared with 2005 results as we continue to expand its    operations.
 
    Depreciation and    amortization.

  Depreciation and amortization    expense of the Wireless Business is primarily comprised of the    amortization of our fixed wireless licenses. Depreciation and    amortization was $6.3 million for the year ended    December 31, 2005, and $6.3 million for the year ended    December 31, 2004.
 
    As of December 31, 2005, we had approximately    $23.5 million of broadband wireless licenses that have not    yet been placed into service and, accordingly, are not currently    being depreciated or amortized.
 
    We expect depreciation expense during 2006 to increase as    additional assets are placed into service. Our so-called    “A3 Block” of LMDS spectrum licenses in eight counties    in the New York market were renewed in February 2006 for an    additional ten years, extending these licenses through    February 1, 2016. In order to maintain our license,    however, we must demonstrate that we are providing substantial    service using this license by March 2007. We submitted a request    to the FCC on January 12, 2005 to extend the deadline for    meeting the substantial service requirement for these licenses    until October 2008 to conform to the deadline of all of our    other LMDS licenses. This request remains pending with the FCC.    If we are successful in extending, we
        53
Table of Contents

    will reassess our accounting policy and will consider    classifying the assets as indefinite life assets, thereby    ceasing amortization prospectively.
 
    Critical    Accounting Policies and Estimates


 
    Our significant accounting policies are more fully described in    the notes to the consolidated financial statements in our 2005    Consolidated Financial Statements. The preparation of the    consolidated financial statements in accordance with accounting    principles generally accepted in the United States requires    management to make judgments, estimates and assumptions    regarding uncertainties that affect the reported amounts of    assets and liabilities, disclosure of contingent assets and    liabilities and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses.    Management uses historical experience and all available    information to make these judgments and estimates and actual    results could differ from those estimates and assumptions that    are used to prepare our financial statements at any given time.    Despite these inherent limitations, management believes that    Management's Discussion and Analysis and the accompanying    condensed consolidated financial statements and footnotes    provide a meaningful and fair perspective of our financial    condition and our operating results for the current period.    Management's Discussion and Analysis and Note 2 to the    Consolidated Financial Statements in the XO Communications, Inc.    Annual Report on    Form 10-K
    for the year ended December 31, 2005 describe the    significant estimates and accounting policies used in    preparation of the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
 
    Management believes the following critical accounting policies    represent the more significant judgments and estimates used in    the preparation of our audited consolidated financial statements    included in this    form 10-K.

 
    Property    and Equipment


 
    Depreciation on our property and equipment is calculated on a    straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives of the    assets. The estimated useful lives of telecommunications    networks and acquired bandwidth are 3 to 20 years and 5 to    7 years for furniture fixtures, equipment and other. These    useful lives are determined based on historical usage with    consideration given to technological changes and trends in the    industry that could impact the network architecture and asset    utilization. This latter assessment is significant because we    operate within an industry in which new technological changes    could render some or all of our network related equipment    obsolete requiring application of a shorter useful life or, in    certain circumstances, a write-off of the entire value of the    asset. Accordingly, in making this assessment, we consider our    planned use of the assets, the views of experts both from    internal and outside sources regarding the impact of    technological advances and trends in the industry on the value    and useful lives of our network assets. Costs of additions and    improvements are capitalized and repairs and maintenance are    charged to expense as incurred. Direct external and internal    costs of constructing property and equipment are capitalized    including interest costs related to construction. Depreciation    or amortization of the long-lived assets, with finite lives,    begins when the asset is substantially complete or placed into    service.
 
    Our property and equipment is reviewed for impairment whenever    events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying    amount should be addressed pursuant to Statement of Financial    Accounting Standards No. 144, “Accounting for the    Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived Assets,”    (“SFAS No. 144”). The criteria for    determining impairment for long-lived assets to be held and used    is determined by comparing the carrying value of these    long-lived assets to management's best estimate of future    undiscounted cash flows expected to result from the use of the    assets and their eventual disposition. Based on our analysis, we    believe that no impairment existed under SFAS No. 144    as of December 31, 2005. In the event that there are    changes in the planned use of our long-lived assets or our    expected future undiscounted cash flows are reduced    significantly, our assessment of our ability to recover the    carrying value of these assets under SFAS No. 144    could change.
        54
Table of Contents

    Broadband    Wireless Licenses


 
    Our Broadband Wireless Licenses are currently considered finite    lived assets as we have no history of success or failure in    renewing licenses upon expiration. Accordingly, these assets are    accounted for in accordance with SFAS No. 144 and are    amortized over the portion of the original license term    remaining after the license is placed in service, or    10 years, whichever is shorter. The original license period    is determined by the FCC. In order to maintain our licenses, we    are required to demonstrate that we are providing substantial    service in the license area within ten years of being licensed.    Failure to meet this requirement could result in forfeiture of    the license. Our so-called “A3 Block” of LMDS spectrum    licenses in eight counties in the New York market were renewed    in February 2006 for an additional ten years, extending these    licenses through February 1, 2016. In order to maintain    these licenses, however, we must demonstrate that we are    providing substantial service using these licenses by March    2007. We submitted a request to the FCC on January 12, 2005    to extend the deadline for meeting the substantial service    requirement for these licenses until October 2008 to conform to    the deadline of all of our other LMDS licenses. This request    remains pending with the FCC.
 
    Approximately $23.5 million in book value of these licenses    have not yet been placed into service. Had these licenses been    in service during all of 2005, amortization expense would have    increased by approximately $5.5 million.
 
    Other    Intangible Assets


 
    Other intangibles consist of customer relationships, internally    developed technology, trade names and goodwill. The customer    relationships, internally developed technology and certain trade    names are being amortized using the straight-line method over    the estimated useful lives of 30 or 48 months. Certain    trade names were determined to have indefinite lives and are not    being amortized. Goodwill and indefinite life trade names are    reviewed at least annually for impairment, as required under    Statement of Financial Accounting Standards 142, “Goodwill    and Other Intangible Assets”    (“SFAS No. 142”).
 
    We retained independent appraisers to perform a valuation of our    assets and liabilities as of December 31, 2004. This    valuation was necessary as our estimated fair value as    determined by our stock price, was less than our book value.    Based on this appraisal we recorded a $212.5 million    non-cash impairment charge on our goodwill.
 
    Revenue    Recognition


 
    Revenues from telecommunications services are recognized when    the services are performed, evidence of an arrangement exists,    the charges are fixed and determinable and collectability is    probable. In circumstances when these criteria are not met,    revenue recognition is deferred until resolution occurs. For    example, if a customer files for bankruptcy protection, we    believe the probability of collection is weakened. Consequently,    under such circumstances, although we continue to bill the    customer for all services provided, we do not recognize revenue    until cash is received. In addition, telecommunications    customers often dispute the amounts that we invoice them due to    regulatory issues, late payment fees, and early termination    charges based on differences of opinion regarding contract terms    or service levels. Accordingly, as these billings are not    considered fixed and determinable and collection of such amounts    is not considered probable while these amounts are disputed,    revenue recognition is deferred until the dispute is resolved    and the collection is probable.
 
    Service discounts and incentives related to telecommunications    services are recorded as a reduction of revenue when granted or    ratably over a contract period. Fees billed in connection with    customer installations and other non-recurring fees are deferred    and recognized ratably over the estimated customer life of three    years.
        55
Table of Contents

    Allowance    for Uncollectible Accounts


 
    We establish an allowance for uncollectible accounts and other    sales credit adjustments. Allowances for sales credits are    established through a charge to revenue, while allowances for    doubtful accounts are established through a charge to selling,    operating and general expenses. We assess the adequacy of these    reserves monthly by considering general factors, such as the    length of time individual receivables are past due, historical    collection experience, the economic and competitive environment,    and changes in the creditworthiness of our customers. As    considered necessary, we also assess the ability of specific    customers to meet their financial obligations to us and    establish specific valuation allowances based on the amount we    expect to collect from these customers. We can and have    experienced material changes to our reserve requirements on a    month to month basis. We believe that our established credit and    valuation allowances were adequate as of December 31, 2005.    If circumstances relating to specific customers change or    economic conditions worsen such that our past collection    experience and assessment of the economic environment are no    longer valid, our estimate of the recoverability of our trade    receivables could be changed. If this occurs, we would adjust    our valuation allowance in the period the new information is    known.
 
    Cost of    Service


 
    Cost of service includes expenses directly associated with    providing telecommunications services to customers. We accrue    for the estimated costs of services received from third party    telecommunications providers during the period the services are    received. Invoices received from the third party    telecommunications providers are often disputed due to billing    discrepancies. We accrue for all invoiced amounts, even amounts    in dispute, as these amounts represent contingent liabilities    that are considered probable and measurable. Disputes resolved    in our favor may reduce cost of service in the period the    dispute is settled. As the period of time required to resolve    these types of disputes often lapses over several quarters, the    benefits associated with the favorable resolution of such    disputes are normally realized in periods subsequent to the    accrual of the disputed amount.
 
    During the years ended December 31, 2005 and 2004, we    resolved certain billing disputes, had settlements with    telecommunications service providers, and revised certain    estimates related to liabilities assumed in relation to the    Acquired Businesses. These favorable dispute resolutions,    settlements and estimate revisions resulted in reductions in    cost of service of approximately $40.6 million and    $8.9 million for the years ended December 31, 2005 and    2004, respectively.
 
    Allegiance    Bankruptcy Claim


 
    Allegiance and its direct and indirect subsidiaries operated as    debtors-in-possession
    under the Bankruptcy Code from May 14, 2003 to    June 23, 2004. As part of the purchase effort with    Allegiance, we acquired $92.5 million in face value of    unsecured Allegiance debt securities for approximately    $36.4 million. Consequently, we are a claimant in    Allegiance's bankruptcy. The fair value of the our claim    (the “Debt Claim”) on the Allegiance estate is    calculated based on the estimated value of our share of the    remaining net assets of the Allegiance Telecom Liquidating Trust    (the “ATLT”) using publicly available information.    Because of the nature of the estimates and uncertainties used in    the valuation of the net assets of the ATLT and, thus, the Debt    Claim, the amount that we recover from the ATLT upon the    distribution of the net assets of the trust may vary materially    from the carrying value. Additionally, significant variability    in the value of our stock, which was used to purchase the    Acquired Businesses and, hence, is the largest asset of the    ATLT, could result in material changes to the value of the ATLT    and the amount of our recovery of the Debt Claim.
 
    Off-Balance    Sheet Arrangements


 
    We are not currently engaged in the use of off-balance sheet    derivative financial instruments, to hedge or partially hedge    interest rate exposure nor do we maintain any other off-balance    sheet arrangements for the purpose of credit enhancement,    hedging transactions, or other financial or investment purposes.
        56
Table of Contents

    Recent    Accounting Pronouncements


 
    Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 123    (revised 2004), “Share-Based Payment”    (“SFAS No. 123R”), was issued in December    2004. Once effective, this statement will require entities to    recognize compensation cost for all equity-classified awards    granted, modified or settled after the effective date using a    fair-value measurement method. In addition, public companies    will recognize compensation expense for the unvested portion of    awards outstanding as of the effective date based on their    grant-date fair value as calculated under the original    provisions of SFAS No. 123. Our effective date us is    the fiscal year beginning January 1, 2006. The amount of    compensation expense that we record after the adoption of    SFAS No. 123R in 2006 and beyond will depend on the    amount, timing and pricing of stock option grants. However, we    do not believe that it will have a material impact on our    financial position or results of operations.
 
    Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 154,    Accounting Changes and Error    Corrections  —  a replacement of APB    Opinion No. 20 and FASB Statement No. 3 
was issued    in May 2005. This statement provides guidance on the accounting    for and reporting of changes in accounting principles and error    corrections. It requires retrospective application to prior    periods' financial statements of changes in accounting    principle, unless it is impracticable to determine either the    period-specific effects or the cumulative effect of the change.    The statement is effective for accounting changes and    corrections of errors made in fiscal years beginning after    December 15, 2005.
 
    
    

        Item 7A.  


        Quantitative    and Qualitative Disclosure About Market Risk





 
    As of December 31, 2005, our Credit Facility was comprised    of $300.8 million in secured loans and $0.3 million of    accrued interest. Currently, we do not pay cash interest on the    Credit Facility and accrued interest converts to principal    ratably throughout the loan period. As interest accrues at    variable rates, our Credit Facility subjects us to interest rate    risks. Interest rate risk as of December 31, 2005 is    illustrated in the following table (dollars in millions).
 
     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	
 
 
    Annual Interest Expense Given    


 
 
 
 
 
    Annual Interest Expense Given    


 

 
 
    an Interest Rate decrease    


 
 
    No Change in    


 
 
    an Interest Rate increase    


 

 
 
    of X Basis Points


 
 
    Interest Rates    


 
 
    of X Basis Points


 

    Interest Rate Risk



 
    (150 BPS)


 
 
    (100 BPS)


 
 
    (50 BPS)


 
 
    Fair Value


 
 
    50 BPS


 
 
    100 BPS


 
 
    150 BPS


 

 

    Credit    


 
    $
    23.8
 
 
    $
    25.3
 
 
    $
    26.8
 
 
    $
    28.3
 
 
    $
    29.8
 
 
    $
    31.4
 
 
    $
    32.9
 



 
    The sensitivity analysis provides only a limited, point in time    view of the market risk sensitivity of the loans under our    Credit Facility. The actual impact of market interest rate    changes may differ significantly from those shown in the above    sensitivity analysis.
 
    Marketable securities, available for sale, at December 31,    2005 consist primarily of investments in equity and debt    securities of publicly traded companies. The fair value of our    investment in equity and debt securities exposes us to market    risk. These investments are subject to changes in the market    price of the securities. The table that follows summarizes the    fair values of our marketable securities and provides a    sensitivity analysis of the estimated fair value of these    financial instruments assuming a 5%, 10% and 15% increase or    decrease in market price (dollars in millions).
 
     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    Fair value    


 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    assuming the    


 

 
 
    Fair value assuming the    


 
 
 
 
 
    following    


 

 
 
    following percentage    


 
 
 
 
 
    percentage    


 

 
 
    decrease in market    


 
 
    No Change    


 
 
    increase in    


 

 
 
    price


 
 
    in Fair Value


 
 
    market price


 

    Market Risk



 
    15%


 
 
    10%


 
 
    5%


 
 
    0%


 
 
    5%


 
 
    10%


 
 
    15%


 

 

    Market price    


 
    $
    6.1
 
 
    $
    6.4
 
 
    $
    6.8
 
 
    $
    7.2
 
 
    $
    7.5
 
 
    $
    7.9
 
 
    $
    8.2
 



 
    
    

        Item 8.  


        Financial    Statements and Supplementary Data





 
    Our consolidated financial statements are filed under this Item,    beginning on    page F-1
    of this Report.
        57
Table of Contents

 
    
    

        Item 9.  


        Changes    in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and    Financial Disclosure





 
    None.
 
    
    

        Item 9A.  


        Controls    and Procedures





 
    Evaluation    of Disclosure Controls and Procedures


 
    The term disclosure controls and procedures is defined in    Rules 13a-15(e)
    and    15d-15(e)
 of    the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. These rules refer to the    controls and other procedures of a company that are designed to    ensure that information required to be disclosed by a company in    the reports that it files under the Exchange Act is recorded,    processed, summarized and reported within required time periods.    Our Principal Executive Officer and our Principal Financial    Officer have evaluated the effectiveness of our disclosure    controls and procedures as of the end of the period covered by    this report. Based on the evaluation they have concluded that,    as of the end of such period the controls and procedures were    effective at ensuring that required information was disclosed on    a timely basis in our report filed under the Exchange Act.
 
    Changes    in Internal Controls over Financial Reporting


 
    There has been no change in our internal control over financial    reporting during the fourth quarter of 2005 that has materially    affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, our    internal control over financial reporting.
 
    Management    Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting


 
    Management of XO Holdings is responsible for establishing and    maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting    as such term is defined in Exchange Act    Rules 13a-15(f).
    In accordance with the Securities and Exchange Commission    Rulemaking Release Nos.    33-8238
 and    34-47986 issued in August 2003, management has evaluated the    effectiveness of XO's internal controls over financial    reporting based on the framework in Internal    Control  —  Integrated Framework    
issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the    Treadway Commission or more commonly referred to as the COSO    Framework.
 
    Based on our evaluation under the COSO framework, management has    concluded that XO Holdings' internal control over    financial reporting was effective as of December 31, 2005.    KPMG LLP, XO Holdings' independent registered public    accounting firm, has audited the financial statements included    in this Annual Report on    Form 10-K,
    and has issued an attestation report on management's    assessment of XO Holdings' internal control over    financial reporting.
 
    
    

        Item 10.  


        Directors    and Executive Officers of the Registrant





 
    Certain information required by Items 401 and 405 of    Regulation S-K
    is incorporated by reference from our definitive proxy statement    for the 2005 Annual Meeting of Stockholders filed with the SEC    on March 8, 2006, to be completed and mailed to    stockholders prior to April 30, 2006.
 
    Audit    Committee Financial Expert


 
    Our Board of Directors has determined Robert Knauss is an    “audit committee financial expert” as defined under    Item 401(h) of    Regulation S-K.
    Mr. Knauss is an independent director, as defined in    Item 7(d)(3)(iv) of Schedule 14A.
 
    Code of    Ethics


 
    We have adopted a Code of Ethics within the meaning of    Item 406(b) of    Regulation S-K.
    This Code of Ethics applies to our principal executive officer,    our principal financial officer and principal accounting    officer, as well as all other employees. This Code of Ethics is    publicly available on our website at www.xo.com. If we make    substantive amendments to this Code of Ethics or grant any    waiver, including any implicit waiver, we
        58
Table of Contents

    will disclose the nature of such amendment or waiver on our    website or in a report on    Form 8-K
    within five days of such amendment or waiver.
 
    
    

        Item 11.  


        Executive    Compensation





 
    The information required by this Item is incorporated by    reference from the information provided under the heading    “Executive Compensation” of our Proxy Statement.
 
    
    

        Item 12.  


        Security    Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management





 
    The information required by this Item is incorporated by    reference from our definitive proxy statement for the 2006    Annual Meeting of Stockholders to be filed with the SEC pursuant    to Regulation 14A within 120 days after    December 31, 2005.
 
    
    

        Item 13.  



        Certain    Relationships and Related Transactions






 
    Various entities controlled by Mr. Icahn hold the following    interests in XO Holdings:
 
     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	
 
 
    Outstanding    


 
 
    Series A, B and C    


 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
    Common Stock


 
 
    Warrants


 
 
    Credit Facility


 
 
    Preferred Stock


 

 

    At December 31, 2004    


 
 
    Greater than 50
    %
 
 
    Greater than 40
    %
 
 
    Greater than 90
    %
 
 
    95
    %

    At December 31, 2005    


 
 
    Greater than 50
    %
 
 
    Greater than 40
    %
 
 
    Greater than 90
    %
 
 
    95
    %



 
    As a result of his majority ownership, Mr. Icahn can elect    all of our directors, appoint the members of the committees of    the Board of Directors, appoint key members of the executive    management team, and appoint our auditors. Currently,    Mr. Icahn is Chairman of the Board of Directors and three    employees of Icahn Associates are members on the Board of    Directors and various Committees of the Board of Directors.    Under applicable law and XO Holdings' Certificate of    Incorporation and by-laws, certain actions cannot be taken    without the approval of holders of a majority of our voting    stock, including, without limitation, mergers, acquisitions, the    sale of substantially all our assets, and amendments to our    Certificate of Incorporation and by-laws.
 
    Mr. Icahn, through various entities that he owns or    controls, has the right to require XO Holdings to register,    under the Securities Act of 1933, shares of XO Holdings'    Common Stock held by such entities and to include shares of XO    Holdings' common stock held by them in certain registration    statements filed by XO Holdings.
 
    We provide certain telecommunications services to companies    affiliated with Mr. Icahn. The total revenue recognized on    such services for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004,    and 2003 was $3.3 million, $2.0 million, and    $0.4 million, respectively. During the years ended    December 31, 2005, 2004, and 2003, we purchased    approximately $1.0 million, $0.6 million, and    $0.3 million respectively, in services from companies    affiliated with Mr. Icahn.
 
    During the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004, and 2003 we    purchased approximately $1.1 million, $1.0 million,    and $1.1 million, respectively, in hardware and services    from Dell Computers, Inc. Mr. Adam Dell, an XO Holdings    director, is the brother of Mr. Michael Dell, the Chairman    of Dell Computers, Inc.
 
    On November 4, 2005, XO Holdings and XOC entered into the    Equity Purchase Agreement that provides for the Wireline Sale of    our national wireline telecommunications business through the    sale of all of the outstanding LLC interests in XO LLC, a newly    formed, wholly-owned subsidiary of XOC, for an aggregate    purchase price of $700 million consisting of    $625 million in cash and the assumption of $75 million    of indebtedness.
 
    As part of the Wireline Sale, XO Holdings and Buyer have agreed    that that certain Tax Allocation Agreement, dated as of    January 16, 2003, by and between XOC and Starfire Holding    Corporation, beneficial holder of approximately 62% of our    common stock and an affiliate of our Chairman and controlling    stockholder, Mr. Icahn, will be terminated as a condition    to the closing of the Wireline Sale. In addition, as a
        59
Table of Contents

    result of the Wireline Sale, the tax attributes of the Wireline    Business will remain with that business following the Closing.
 
    In connection with the execution of the Equity Purchase    Agreement and in order to induce XO Holdings and XOC to enter    into the Equity Purchase Agreement, Cardiff, who beneficially    owns approximately 62% of our Common Stock, entered into a    Stockholder Voting Agreement, dated as of November  4,    2005, referred to as the Stockholder Agreement, pursuant to    which Cardiff has agreed, among other things, to vote its shares    in certain events in accordance with the recommendation of the    Special Committee. The Buyer's obligations of payment and    performance pursuant to the Equity Purchase Agreement are    guaranteed pursuant to a Guaranty, dated as of November 4,    2005, with Thornwood Associates Limited Partnership, an    affiliate of Mr. Icahn.
 
    On March 1, 2006, XO Holdings, XO LLC (as successor by    merger to XOC), and Buyer agreed to amend the Equity Purchase    Agreement to clarify that $75 million of the purchase price    contemplated by the Equity Purchase Agreement would be    structured as the assumption of XO Holdings' indebtedness,    and to further delineate certain excluded assets that would not    be conveyed by XO Holdings to Buyer as part of the Wireline Sale.
 
    On March 1, 2006, XO LLC (as successor by merger to XOC),    certain subsidiaries of XO LLC, as guarantors, XO Holdings, as    guarantor, LMDS Holdings, Inc., a Delaware corporation and a    wholly-owned subsidiary of XO Holdings, or LMDS Co., as    guarantor, V&K Holdings, Inc., a Delaware corporation and a    wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company, or V&K, as    guarantor, the Requisite Lenders (as defined in the Credit    Agreement), on behalf of all of the Lenders, and the    Administrative Agent entered into a Ratification and Amendment    Agreement, or the Ratification and Amendment Agreement. Pursuant    to the Ratification and Amendment Agreement, among other things,    (i) XO LLC has agreed that, as successor by merger to XOC,    it will remain a party to the Credit Agreement as the borrower    thereunder, and (ii) each of XO Holdings, LMDS Co. and    V&K have agreed that, notwithstanding the fact that it is    not a subsidiary of XO LLC, it will serve as a guarantor of XO    LLC's obligations under the Credit Agreement. The    Ratification and Amendment Agreement also provides for the    release of each of XO Holdings, LMDS Co. and V&K from any    and all of its obligations (as guarantor or otherwise) under or    with respect to the Credit Agreement upon the satisfaction of    certain conditions contained therein to the reasonable    satisfaction of Requisite Lenders.
 
    
    

        Item 14.  



        Principal    Accounting Fees and Services






 
    The information required by this Item is incorporated by    reference from our definitive proxy statement for the 2006    Annual Meeting of Stockholders to be filed with the SEC pursuant    to Regulation 14A within 120 days after    December 31, 2005.
 
    
    

        Item 15.  



        Exhibits,    Financial Statement Schedules






 
    (a) (1) and (2) Financial Statements and Schedule:
 
     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	
    XO Communications, Inc.,    predecessor of XO Holdings, Inc.




 

 


    Reports of KPMG    LLP, Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm
    


 

    F-1    



    Consolidated    Balance Sheets as of December 31, 2005 and 2004
    


 

    F-3    



    Consolidated    Statements of Operations for the Years Ended December 31,    2005, 2004, and 2003
    


 

    F-4    



    Consolidated    Statements of Stockholders' Equity (Deficit) for the Years    Ended December 31, 2005, 2004, and 2003
    


 

    F-5    



    Consolidated    Statements of Cash Flows for the Years Ended December 31,    2005, 2004, and 2003
    


 

    F-6    



    Notes to    Consolidated Financial Statements
    


 

    F-7    



    Schedule II  —  Consolidated    Valuation and Qualifying Accounts
    


 

    S-1
    





 
    (1) List of Exhibits  —  Refer to    Exhibit Index, which is incorporated herein by reference.
        60
Table of Contents

 
    SIGNATURES



 
    Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the    Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly    caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned    thereunto duly authorized.
 
    XO Communications, Inc.
 
    Date: March 16, 2006
    
    
    

     
        By: 
        /s/  Carl    J. Grivner
    




    Carl J. Grivner

    President and Chief Executive Officer

    (Principal Executive Officer)
 
    Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of    1934, this report has been signed below on or before    March 16, 2006 by the following persons on behalf of the    Registrant and in the capacities indicated:
 
     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	
    Name



 
    Title




 

    /s/  Carl    J. Grivner
    


Carl    J. Grivner    

 
    President and Chief Executive    Officer, Director (Principal Executive Officer)    


 
 
 

    /s/  William    Garrahan
    


William    Garrahan    

 
    Senior Vice President and Acting    Chief Financial Officer (Principal Financial Officer)    


 
 
 

            


Carl    C. Icahn    

 
    Chairman of the Board of Directors    


 
 
 

    /s/  Keith    Meister
    


Keith    Meister    

 
    Director    


 
 
 

    /s/  Adam    Dell
    


Adam    Dell    

 
    Director    


 
 
 

    /s/  Fredrik    Gradin
    


Fredrik    Gradin    

 
    Director    


 
 
 

    /s/  Vincent    J. Intrieri
    


Vincent    J. Intrieri    

 
    Director    


 
 
 

    /s/  Robert    L. Knauss
    


Robert    L. Knauss    

 
    Director    


 
 
 

    /s/  Jon    Weber
    


Jon    Weber    

 
    Director    




        61
Table of Contents

 
    EXHIBIT INDEX



 
     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	
 
    2
    .1
 
    Third Amended Plan of    Reorganization of XO Communications, Inc., dated July 22, 2002,    (Incorporated herein by reference to exhibit 2.1 filed with    the Current Report on    Form 8-K/A
    of XO Communications, Inc., filed on November 26, 2002).    


 
    2
    .2
 
    Plan Supplement, dated October 23,    2003, to the Third Amended Plan of Reorganization of XO    Communications, Inc., dated July 22, 2002 (Incorporated    herein by reference to exhibit 2.2 filed with the Current    Report on    Form 8-K/A
    of XO Communications, Inc., filed on November 26, 2002).    


 
    2
    .3
 
    Order Confirming Third Amended    Plan of Reorganization, dated November 15, 2002    (Incorporated herein by reference to exhibit 99.1 filed    with the Current Report on    Form 8-K/A
    of XO Communications, Inc., filed on November 26, 2002).    


 
    2
    .4
 
    Asset Purchase Agreement, dated as    of February 18, 2004, by and among XO Communications, Inc.,    Allegiance Telecom, Inc., and Allegiance Telecom Company    Worldwide (Incorporated herein by reference to exhibit 10.1    filed with the Current Report on    Form 8-K
    of XO Communications, Inc. filed on February 24, 2004).    


 
    2
    .5
 
    Equity Purchase Agreement, dated    as of November 4, 2005, by and among the XO Holdings, Inc.,    XO Communications, Inc. and Elk Associates LLC. (Incorporated    herein by reference to exhibit 2.1 filed with the Current    Report on    Form 8-K
    of XO Communications, Inc., filed on November 9, 2005).    


 
    2
    .6
 
    Agreement and Plan of Merger,    dated as of February 28, 2006, by and among XO Communications,    Inc., XO Holdings, Inc. and XO Communications, LLC.    (Incorporated herein by reference to exhibit 2.1 filed with    the Current Report on    Form 8-K
    of XO Holdings, Inc. filed on March 06, 2006).    


 
    2
    .7
 
    Amendment No. 1 to Equity Purchase    Agreement, dated as of March 1, 2006, by and among XO    Holdings, Inc., XO Communications, LLC (as successor by merger    to XO Communications, Inc.) and Elk Associates LLC.    (Incorporated herein by reference to exhibit 2.2 filed with    the Current Report on    Form 8-K
    of XO Holdings, Inc. filed on March 06, 2006).    


 
    3
    .1
 
    Certificate of Incorporation of XO    Holdings, Inc., as filed with the Secretary of State of the    State of Delaware on October 25, 2005. (Incorporated herein by    reference to exhibit 3.1 filed with the Current Report on    Form 8-K
    of XO Holdings, Inc. filed on March 06, 2006).    


 
    3
    .2
 
    Certificate of Designation of the    Powers, Preferences and Relative, Participating, Optional and    other Special Rights of the 6% Class A Convertible Preferred    Stock and Qualifications, Limitations and Restrictions thereof,    as filed with the Secretary of State of the State of Delaware on    February 28, 2006. (Incorporated herein by reference to    exhibit 3.2 filed with Current Report on    Form 8-K
    of XO Holdings, Inc. filed on March 06, 2006).    


 
    3
    .3
 
    Bylaws of XO Holdings, Inc.    (Incorporated herein by reference to exhibit 3.3 filed with    Current Report,    Form 8-K
    filed on March 06, 2006).    


 
    4
    .1
 
    Series A Warrant Agreement, dated    as of January 16, 2003, by and between XO Communications,    Inc. and American Stock Transfer & Trust Company    (Incorporated herein by reference to exhibit 10.1 filed    with the Current Report on    Form 8-K
    of XO Communications, Inc., filed on January 30, 2003).    


 
    4
    .2
 
    Series B Warrant Agreement, dated    as of January 16, 2003, by and between XO Communications,    Inc. and American Stock Transfer & Trust Company    (Incorporated herein by reference to exhibit 10.2 filed    with the Current Report on    Form 8-K
    of XO Communications, Inc., filed on January 30, 2003).    


 
    4
    .3
 
    Series C Warrant Agreement, dated    as of January 16, 2003, by and between XO Communications,    Inc. and American Stock Transfer & Trust Company    (Incorporated herein by reference to exhibit 10.3 filed    with the Current Report on    Form 8-K
    of XO Communications, Inc., filed on January 30, 2003).    


 
    10
    .1
 
    XO Communications, Inc. 2002 Stock    Incentive Plan (Incorporated herein by reference to    exhibit 10.1.1 to the Annual Report on Form 10-K of XO    Communications, Inc. for the year ended December  31, 2002,    filed on March 21, 2003).    


 
    10
    .2
 
    XO Communications, Inc. Retention    Bonus and Incentive Plan (Incorporated herein by reference to    exhibit 10.1.2 to the Annual Report on Form 10-K of XO    Communications, Inc. for the year ended December 31, 2002,    filed on March 21, 2003).    


 
    10
    .3
 
    Registration Rights Agreement,    dated as of January 16, 2003, between XO Communications,    Inc. and High River Limited Partnership and Meadow Walk Limited    Partnership (Incorporated herein by reference to    exhibit 10.4 filed with the Current Report on    Form 8-k
    of XO Communications, Inc., filed on January 30, 2003).    



        62
Table of Contents

     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	
 
    10
    .4
 
    Registration Rights Agreement,    dated as of August 6, 2004, by and among XO Communications,    Inc., Tramore LLC, Cardiff Holdings, LLC and Amalgamated Gadget,    L.P. (Incorporated herein by reference to exhibit 10.1    filed with the Quarterly Report on    Form 10-Q
    filed by XO Communications, Inc. for the quarterly period ended    June 30, 2004, filed on August 9, 2004).    


 
    10
    .5
 
    Registration Rights Agreement,    dated as of June 23, 2004, by and among Allegiance Telecom,    Inc., Allegiance Telecom Company Worldwide, the Allegiance    Telecom Liquidating Trust, and XO Communications, Inc.    (Incorporated herein by reference to exhibit 10.5 filed    with the Annual Report on    Form 10-K
    of XO Communications, Inc. for the year ended    December 31, 2004, filed on March 18, 2005)    


 
    10
    .6
 
    Tax Allocation Agreement, dated as    of January 16, 2003, between XO Communications, Inc. and    Starfire Holding Corporation (Incorporated herein by reference    to exhibit 10.5 filed with the Current Report on    Form 8-k
    of XO Communications, Inc., filed on January 30, 2003).    


 
    10
    .7
 
    Employment Term Sheet, dated as of    April 30, 2003, delivered by XO Communications, Inc. to Carl J.    Grivner, President and Chief Executive Officer of XO    Communications, Inc. (Incorporated herein by reference to    exhibit 10.1 filed with the Quarterly Report on    Form 10-Q
    of XO Communications, Inc. for the three months ended    March 31, 2003, filed on May 15, 2003).    


 
    10
    .8
 
    Change in Control Agreement by and    between XO Communications, Inc. and Carl J. Grivner, President    and Chief Executive Officer of XO Communications, Inc.    (Incorporated herein by reference to exhibit 10.2 filed    with the Quarterly Report on    Form 10-Q
    of XO Communications, Inc. for the three months ended    March 31, 2003, filed on May 15, 2003).    


 
    10
    .9
 
    Employment Agreement, effective as    of September 25, 2000, by and between Wayne M. Rehberger and XO    Communications, Inc. (Incorporated by reference herein to    exhibit 10.10 filed with the Annual Report on    Form 10-K of XO Communications, Inc. filed on    March 15, 2004).    


 
    10
    .10
 
    Indemnification Agreement by and    between Robert Knauss and XO Communications, Inc., dated as of    November 2, 2004. (Incorporated herein by reference to    exhibit 10.2 filed with the Quarterly Report on    Form 10-Q
    filed by XO Communications, Inc. for the quarterly period ended    September 30, 2004, filed on November 9, 2004).    


 
    10
    .11
 
    Indemnification Agreement by and    between Adam Dell and XO Communications, Inc., dated as of    November 2, 2004. (Incorporated herein by reference to    exhibit 10.1 filed with the Quarterly Report on    Form 10-Q
    filed by XO Communications, Inc. for the quarterly period ended    September 30, 2004, filed on November 9, 2004).    


 
    10
    .12
 
    Indemnification Agreement by and    between Fredrik Gradin and XO Communications, Inc., dated as of    November 2, 2004. (Incorporated herein by reference to    exhibit 10.3 filed with the Quarterly Report on    Form 10-Q
    filed by XO Communications, Inc. for the quarterly period ended    September 30, 2004, filed on November 9, 2004).    


 
    10
    .13
 
    Cost Sharing and IRU Agreement,    dated July 18, 1998, between Level 3 Communications, LLC    and XO Intercity Holdings No. 2, LLC (f/k/a INTERNEXT LLC)    (Incorporated herein by reference to exhibit 10.8 filed    with the quarterly report on    Form 10-Q
    for the quarterly period ended September 30, 1998 of NEXTLINK    Communications, Inc. and NEXTLINK Capital, Inc., filed on    November 16, 1998).    


 
    10
    .14
 
    Master Agreement, dated    August 8, 2002, between Level 3 Communications, Inc.    and XO Communications, Inc. (Incorporated herein by reference to    exhibit 10.4.2 filed with the Annual Report on    Form 10-K of XO Communications, Inc. for the year ended    December  31, 2002, filed on March 21, 2003).    


 
    10
    .15
 
    Amended and Restated Credit and    Guaranty Agreement, dated as of January 16, 2003, among XO    Communications, Inc., certain subsidiaries of XO Communications,    Inc., the Lenders party thereto from time to time, and Mizuho    Corporate Bank, as Administrative Agent (Incorporated herein by    reference to exhibit 10.5 filed with the Annual Report on    Form 10-K of XO Communications, Inc. for the year ended    December 31, 2002, filed on March 21, 2003).    


 
    10
    .16
 
    Agreement, dated as of May 9,    2005, by and between XO Communications, Inc., Arnos Corp., High    River Limited Partnership, and Cardiff Holding LLC.    (Incorporated herein by reference to exhibit 10.1 filed    with the Quarterly Report filed on    Form 10-Q
    of XO Communications, Inc. for the quarter ended March 31,    2005, filed on May 09, 2005).    



        63
Table of Contents

     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	
 
    10
    .17
 
    Stockholder Agreement, dated as of    November 4, 2005, by and between XO Communications, Inc.    and Cardiff Holdings LLC. (Incorporated herein by reference to    exhibit 10.1 filed with the Current Report on    Form 8-K
    of XO Communications, Inc., filed on November 9, 2005).    


 
    10
    .18
 
    Guaranty, dated as of    November 4, 2005, by and between Thornwood Associates    Limited Partnership and XO Communications, Inc. (Incorporated    herein by reference to exhibit 10.2 filed with the Current    Report on    Form 8-K
    of XO Communications, Inc. filed on November 9, 2005).    


 
    10
    .19
 
    Ratification and Amendment    Agreement, dated as of March 1, 2006, by and among XO    Communications, LLC (as successor by merger to XO    Communications, Inc.), certain subsidiaries of XO    Communications, LLC, as guarantors, XO Holdings, Inc., as    guarantor, LMDS Holdings, Inc., as guarantor, V&K Holdings,    Inc., as guarantor, Arnos Corp., as Requisite Lenders, and    Mizuho Corporate Bank, Ltd., as administrative agent.    (Incorporated herein by reference to exhibit 10.2 filed    with the Current Report on    Form 8-K
    of XO Holdings, Inc., filed on March 06, 2006).    


 
    10
    .20
 
    Assignment and Assumption    Agreement, dated as of February 28, 2006, by and among XO    Communications, Inc. and XO Holdings, Inc. (Incorporated herein    by reference to exhibit 10.1 filed with Current Report on    Form 8-K
    of XO Holdings, Inc. filed on March 06, 2006).    


 
    10
    .21
 
    Change in Control Severance Plan    for Certain Covered Executives (Director and Above) of XO    Communications, Inc., dated as of June 2, 2005.    (Incorporated herein by reference to exhibit 10.1 filed    with the Current Report on    Form 8-K
    of XO Communications, Inc. filed on June 8, 2005).    


 
    14
    .1
 
    XO Communications, Inc. Code of    Ethics (Incorporated by reference herein to exhibit 14.1    filed with the Annual Report on Form 10-K of XO    Communications, Inc. filed on March 15, 2004).    


 
    21
    .1
 
    Subsidiaries of XO Holdings, Inc.    


 
    23
    .1
 
    Consent of KPMG LLP    


 
    31
    .1
 
    Certification of Chief Executive    Officer pursuant to Rule 13a-14 (a) and Rule 15d-14(a) of    the Securities Exchange Act, as amended.    


 
    31
    .2
 
    Certification of Chief Financial    Officer pursuant to Rule 13a-14 (a) and Rule 15d-14(a) of    the Securities Exchange Act, as amended.    


 
    32
    .1
 
    Certification of Chief Executive    Officer pursuant to 18 U.S.C. 1350, as adopted pursuant to    Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.    


 
    32
    .2
 
    Certification of Chief Financial    Officer pursuant to 18 U.S.C. 1350, as adopted pursuant to    Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.    




        64
Table of Contents

    REPORT OF    INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM


 
    The Board of Directors and Stockholders of
    XO Holdings, Inc.:
 
    We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of    XO Communications, Inc., predecessor of XO Holdings, Inc., and    subsidiaries (XO) as of December 31, 2005 and 2004, and the    related consolidated statements of operations,    stockholders' equity, and cash flows for the years ended    December 31, 2005 and 2004, and for the period from    January 1, 2003 to December 31, 2003 (XO period) and    for the portion of January 1, 2003, related to Predecessor    XO's reorganization gain (Predecessor XO period). In    connection with our audits of the XO period, we have also    audited the 2005, 2004 and 2003 consolidated financial statement    schedule as listed in the accompanying index. These consolidated    financial statements and financial statement schedule are the    responsibility of the Company's management. Our    responsibility is to express an opinion on these consolidated    financial statements and financial statement schedule based on    our audits.
 
    We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the    Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those    standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain    reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are    free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a    test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in    the financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the    accounting principles used and significant estimates made by    management, as well as evaluating the overall financial    statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a    reasonable basis for our opinion.
 
    In our opinion, the XO period consolidated financial statements    referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the    financial position of XO Communications, Inc. and subsidiaries    as of December 31, 2005 and 2004 and the results of their    operations and their cash flows for the XO period, in conformity    with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles.    Further, in our opinion, the Predecessor XO period consolidated    financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all    material respects, the results of their operations and their    cash flows for the portion of January 1, 2003 related to    the Predecessor's reorganization gain in conformity with    U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. Also in our    opinion, the related 2005, 2004 and 2003 consolidated financial    statement schedule, when considered in relation to the basic    consolidated financial statements taken as a whole, presents    fairly, in all material respects, the information set forth    therein.
 
    As discussed in Note 22 to the consolidated financial    statements, on January 16, 2003, XO Communications, Inc.    emerged from bankruptcy. The consolidated financial statements    of XO reflect the impacts of adjustments to reflect the fair    value of assets and liabilities under fresh start reporting,    which was applied effective January 1, 2003. As a result,    the consolidated financial statements of XO are presented on a    different basis than those of Predecessor XO and, therefore, are    not comparable in all respects.
 
    We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the    Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the    effectiveness of XO's internal control over financial    reporting as of December 31, 2005, based on criteria    established in Internal Control — Integrated    Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of    the Treadway Commission (COSO), and our report dated    March 16, 2006 expressed an unqualified opinion on    management's assessment of, and the effective operation of,    internal control over financial reporting.
 
    /s/  KPMG LLP
 
    McLean, VA
    March 16, 2006
        F-1
Table of Contents

 
    REPORT OF    INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM



 
    The Board of    Directors and Stockholders of    XO Holdings, Inc.    

 
 
    We have audited management's assessment, included in the    accompanying Management Report on Internal Control over    Financial Reporting, that XO Communications, Inc.,    predecessor of XO Holdings, Inc., and subsidiaries    (XO) maintained effective internal control over financial    reporting as of December 31, 2005, based on criteria    established in Internal Control — Integrated    Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of    the Treadway Commission (COSO). XO's management is    responsible for maintaining effective internal control over    financial reporting and for its assessment of the effectiveness    of internal control over financial reporting. Our responsibility    is to express an opinion on management's assessment and an    opinion on the effectiveness of the Company's internal    control over financial reporting based on our audit.
 
    We conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the    Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those    standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain    reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control    over financial reporting was maintained in all material    respects. Our audit included obtaining an understanding of    internal control over financial reporting, evaluating    management's assessment, testing and evaluating the design    and operating effectiveness of internal control, and performing    such other procedures as we considered necessary in the    circumstances. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable    basis for our opinion.
 
    A company's internal control over financial reporting is a    process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the    reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of    financial statements for external purposes in accordance with    generally accepted accounting principles. A company's    internal control over financial reporting includes those    policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance    of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly    reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the    company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions    are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial    statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting    principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company    are being made only in accordance with authorizations of    management and directors of the company; and (3) provide    reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of    unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the    company's assets that could have a material effect on the    financial statements.
 
    Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over    financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements.    Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future    periods are subject to the risk that controls may become    inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree    of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.
 
    In our opinion, management's assessment that XO maintained    effective internal control over financial reporting as of    December 31, 2005, is fairly stated, in all material    respects, based on criteria established in Internal    Control — Integrated Framework issued by COSO.    Also, in our opinion, XO maintained, in all material respects,    effective internal control over financial reporting as of    December 31, 2005, based on criteria established in    Internal Control — Integrated Framework issued by    COSO.
 
    We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the    Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the    consolidated balance sheets of XO as of December 31, 2005    and 2004, and the related consolidated statements of operations,    stockholders' equity and cash flows for the years ended    December 31, 2005, 2004 and the period from January 1,    2003 to December 31, 2003, and for the portion of    January 1, 2003, related to Predecessor XO's    reorganization gain and our report dated March 16, 2006    expressed an unqualified opinion on those consolidated financial    statements and the related 2005, 2004 and 2003 consolidated    financial statement schedule.
 
    /s/  KPMG    LLP
    

 
    McLean, Virginia
    March 16, 2006
        F-2
Table of Contents

 
    XO    Communications, Inc., predecessor to XO Holdings, Inc.


 
    Consolidated Balance Sheets    
(Dollars in thousands, except for share and per share    data)

 
     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	
 
 
    December 31,    


 
 
    December 31,    


 

 
 
    2005


 
 
    2004


 

 

    ASSETS



 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

    Current assets:    


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

    Cash and cash equivalents    


 
    $
    176,838
 
 
    $
    233,989
 

    Marketable securities and other    investments    


 
 
    7,150
 
 
 
    17,300
 

    Accounts receivable, net of    allowance for doubtful accounts of $36,061 and $38,981, at    December 31, 2005 and 2004, respectively    


 
 
    137,564
 
 
 
    150,101
 

    Other current assets    


 
 
    34,106
 
 
 
    50,864
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

    Total current assets    


 
 
    355,658
 
 
 
    452,254
 

    Property and equipment, net    


 
 
    717,627
 
 
 
    820,536
 

    Broadband wireless licenses    


 
 
    40,527
 
 
 
    46,854
 

    Other intangibles, net    


 
 
    51,252
 
 
 
    93,012
 

    Other assets    


 
 
    37,661
 
 
 
    46,729
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

    Total assets    


 
    $
    1,202,725
 
 
    $
    1,459,385
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

    LIABILITIES, CONVERTIBLE    PREFERRED STOCK AND     STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY




    Current liabilities:    


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

    Accounts payable    


 
    $
    79,935
 
 
    $
    88,010
 

    Accrued liabilities    


 
 
    216,278
 
 
 
    241,532
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

    Total current liabilities    


 
 
    296,213
 
 
 
    329,542
 

    Long-term debt and accrued    interest payable    


 
 
    301,113
 
 
 
    366,247
 

    Other long-term liabilities    


 
 
    65,755
 
 
 
    73,691
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

    Total liabilities    


 
 
    663,081
 
 
 
    769,480
 

    Class A convertible preferred    stock    


 
 
    217,056
 
 
 
    204,353
 

    Commitments and contingencies    


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

    Stockholders' equity:    


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

    Preferred stock: par value    $0.01 per share, 200,000,000 shares authorized:    4,000,000 shares of Class A convertible preferred    stock issued and outstanding on December 31 2005    


 
 
    —
 
 
 
    —
 

    Warrants, common stock and    additional paid in capital, par value $0.01 per share,    1,000,000,000 shares authorized: 181,933,035 shares    issued and outstanding on December 31 2005 and    December 31, 2004    


 
 
    976,447
 
 
 
    989,511
 

    Deferred compensation    


 
 
    (77
    )
 
 
    (574
    )

    Accumulated other comprehensive    income    


 
 
    820
 
 
 
    4,712
 

    Accumulated deficit    


 
 
    (654,602
    )
 
 
    (508,097
    )

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

    Total stockholders' equity    


 
 
    322,588
 
 
 
    485,552
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

    Total liabilities, convertible    preferred stock and stockholders' equity    


 
    $
    1,202,725
 
 
    $
    1,459,385
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 



 
    See accompanying notes to the consolidated financial statements.
        F-3
Table of Contents

    XO    Communications, Inc., predecessor to XO Holdings, Inc.


 
    Consolidated Statements of Operations    
(Dollars in thousands, except for share and per share    data)

 
     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	
 
 
    Year Ended    


 
 
    Year Ended    


 
 
    Year Ended    


 
 
 
     Predecessor XO    


 

 
 
    December 31,    


 
 
    December 31    


 
 
    December 31,    


 
 
 
    January 1,    


 

 
 
    2005


 
 
    2004


 
 
    2003


 
 
 
    2003


 

    Revenue    


 
    $
    1,433,622
 
 
    $
    1,300,420
 
 
    $
    1,110,483
 
 
 
    $
    —
 

    Costs and expenses:    


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

    Cost of service (exclusive of    depreciation and amortization)    


 
 
    587,904
 
 
 
    552,735
 
 
 
    422,129
 
 
 
 
    —
 

    Selling, operating and general    


 
 
    737,350
 
 
 
    727,666
 
 
 
    679,286
 
 
 
 
    —
 

    Depreciation and amortization    


 
 
    234,762
 
 
 
    177,781
 
 
 
    109,308
 
 
 
 
    —
 

    Goodwill impairment charge    


 
 
    —
 
 
 
    212,530
 
 
 
    —
 
 
 
 
    —
 

    Restructuring    


 
 
    —
 
 
 
    —
 
 
 
    11,618
 
 
 
 
    —
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

    Total costs and expenses    


 
 
    1,560,016
 
 
 
    1,670,712
 
 
 
    1,222,341
 
 
 
 
    —
 

    Loss from operations    


 
 
    (126,394
    )
 
 
    (370,292
    )
 
 
    (111,858
    )
 
 
 
    —
 

    Interest income    


 
 
    8,850
 
 
 
    3,682
 
 
 
    10,365
 
 
 
 
    —
 

    Investment income (loss), net    


 
 
    1,950
 
 
 
    (12,719
    )
 
 
    35,787
 
 
 
 
    —
 

    Interest expense, net    


 
 
    (34,291
    )
 
 
    (26,214
    )
 
 
    (36,848
    )
 
 
 
    —
 

    Other non-operating gain    


 
 
    3,380
 
 
 
    —
 
 
 
    —
 
 
 
 
    —
 

    Reorganization gain, net    


 
 
    —
 
 
 
    —
 
 
 
    —
 
 
 
 
    3,032,282
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

    Net (loss) income    


 
 
    (146,505
    )
 
 
    (405,543
    )
 
 
    (102,554
    )
 
 
 
    3,032,282
 

    Preferred stock accretion    


 
 
    (12,703
    )
 
 
    (4,910
    )
 
 
    —
 
 
 
 
    —
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

    Net (loss) income applicable to    common shares    


 
 
    (159,208
    )
 
    $
    (410,453
    )
 
    $
    (102,554
    )
 
 
    $
    3,032,282
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

    Net (loss) income per common    share, basic and diluted:    


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

    Net (loss) income    


 
 
    (0.81
    )
 
 
    (2.54
    )
 
 
    (1.07
    )
 
 
 
    6.86
 

    Preferred stock accretion    


 
 
    (0.07
    )
 
 
    (0.03
    )
 
 
    —
 
 
 
 
    —
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

    Net (loss) income per common    share, basic and diluted    


 
 
    (0.88
    )
 
    $
    (2.57
    )
 
    $
    (1.07
    )
 
 
    $
    6.86
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

    Weighted average shares, basic and    diluted    


 
 
    181,933,035
 
 
 
    159,883,403
 
 
 
    95,632,859
 
 
 
 
    441,964,342  
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 



 
    See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.
        F-4
Table of Contents

    XO    Communications, Inc., predecessor to XO Holdings, Inc.


 
    Consolidated Statements of Stockholders'    Equity    
(Dollars in thousands, except share data)

 
     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	
 
 
    Common Stock and    


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    Accumulated Other    


 
 
 
 

 
 
    Additional    Pain-In-Capital


 
 
    Subscription Rights    Exercised


 
 
    Subscription    Receivable


 
 
    Deferred    


 
 
    Accumulated    


 
 
    Comprehensive    


 
 
 
 

 
 
    Shares


 
 
    Amount


 
 
    Shares


 
 
    Amount


 
 
    Shares


 
 
    Amount


 
 
    Compensation


 
 
    Deficit


 
 
    Income


 
 
    Total


 

 

    Balance at January 1, 2003    


 
 
    —
 
 
    $
    —
 
 
 
    —
 
 
    $
    —
 
 
 
    —
 
 
    $
    —
 
 
    $
    —
 
 
    $
    —
 
 
    $
    —
 
 
    $
    —
 

    Issuance of common stock    


 
 
    95,000,001
 
 
 
    475,000
 
 
 
    32,503,234
 
 
 
    162,516
 
 
 
    (32,503,234
    )
 
 
    (162,516
    )
 
 
    —
 
 
 
    —
 
 
 
    —
 
 
 
    475,000
 

    Issuance of common stock through    employee benefit plans, net    


 
 
    1,274,139
 
 
 
    7,440
 
 
 
    —
 
 
 
    —
 
 
 
    —
 
 
 
    —
 
 
 
    (839
    )
 
 
    —
 
 
 
    —
 
 
 
    6,601
 

    Comprehensive loss:    


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

    Net loss    


 
 
    —
 
 
 
    —
 
 
 
    —
 
 
 
    —
 
 
 
    —
 
 
 
    —
 
 
 
    —
 
 
 
    (102,554
    )
 
 
    —
 
 
 
    (102,554
    )

    Other comprehensive    income  —  unrealized holding gains    arising during the year    


 
 
    —
 
 
 
    —
 
 
 
    —
 
 
 
    —
 
 
 
    —
 
 
 
    —
 
 
 
    —
 
 
 
    —
 
 
 
    1,378
 
 
 
    1,378
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

    Total comprehensive loss    


 
 
    —
 
 
 
    —
 
 
 
    —
 
 
 
    —
 
 
 
    —
 
 
 
    —
 
 
 
    —
 
 
 
    —
 
 
 
    —
 
 
 
    (101,176
    )

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

    Balance at December 31, 2003    


 
 
    96,274,140
 
 
 
    482,440
 
 
 
    32,503,234
 
 
 
    162,516
 
 
 
    (32,503,234
    )
 
 
    (162,516
    )
 
 
    (839
    )
 
 
    (102,554
    )
 
 
    1,378
 
 
 
    380,425
 

    Issuance of common stock for    acquisition    


 
 
    45,380,000
 
 
 
    311,306
 
 
 
    —
 
 
 
    —
 
 
 
    —
 
 
 
    —
 
 
 
    —
 
 
 
    —
 
 
 
    —
 
 
 
    311,306
 

    Issuance of common stock under    rights offering    


 
 
    39,722,466
 
 
 
    197,612
 
 
 
    (32,503,234
    )
 
 
    (162,516
    )
 
 
    32,503,234
 
 
 
    162,516
 
 
 
    —
 
 
 
    —
 
 
 
    —
 
 
 
    197,612
 

    Issuance of common stock through    employee benefit plans, net    


 
 
    556,429
 
 
 
    3,063
 
 
 
    —
 
 
 
    —
 
 
 
    —
 
 
 
    —
 
 
 
    265
 
 
 
    —
 
 
 
    —
 
 
 
    3,328
 

    Preferred stock accretion    


 
 
    —
 
 
 
    (4,910
    )
 
 
    —
 
 
 
    —
 
 
 
    —
 
 
 
    —
 
 
 
    —
 
 
 
    —
 
 
 
    —
 
 
 
    (4,910
    )

    Comprehensive loss:    


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

    Net loss    


 
 
    —
 
 
 
    —
 
 
 
    —
 
 
 
    —
 
 
 
    —
 
 
 
    —
 
 
 
    —
 
 
 
    (405,543
    )
 
 
    —
 
 
 
    (405,543
    )

    Other comprehensive    income  —  unrealized holding gains    arising during the year , net    


 
 
    —
 
 
 
    —
 
 
 
    —
 
 
 
    —
 
 
 
    —
 
 
 
    —
 
 
 
    —
 
 
 
    —
 
 
 
    3,334
 
 
 
    3,334
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

    Total comprehensive loss    


 
 
    —
 
 
 
    —
 
 
 
    —
 
 
 
    —
 
 
 
    —
 
 
 
    —
 
 
 
    —
 
 
 
    —
 
 
 
    —
 
 
 
    (402,209
    )

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

    Balance at December 31, 2004    


 
 
    181,933,035
 
 
    $
    989,511
 
 
 
 
 
 
    $
    —
 
 
 
    —
 
 
    $
    —
 
 
    $
    (574
    )
 
    $
    (508,097
    )
 
    $
    4,712
 
 
    $
    485,552
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

    Amortization of deferred    compensation, net of forfeitures    


 
 
    —
 
 
 
    (361
    )
 
 
    —
 
 
 
    —
 
 
 
    —
 
 
 
    —
 
 
 
    497
 
 
 
    —
 
 
 
    —
 
 
 
    136
 

    Preferred stock accretion    


 
 
    —
 
 
 
    (12,703
    )
 
 
    —
 
 
 
    —
 
 
 
    —
 
 
 
    —
 
 
 
    —
 
 
 
    —
 
 
 
    —
 
 
 
    (12,703
    )

    Comprehensive loss:    


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

    Net loss    


 
 
    —
 
 
 
    —
 
 
 
    —
 
 
 
    —
 
 
 
    —
 
 
 
    —
 
 
 
    —
 
 
 
    (146,505
    )
 
 
    —
 
 
 
    (146,505
    )

    Other comprehensive    loss  —  unrealized holding losses    arising during the year , net    


 
 
    —
 
 
 
    —
 
 
 
    —
 
 
 
    —
 
 
 
    —
 
 
 
    —
 
 
 
    —
 
 
 
    —
 
 
 
    (3,892
    )
 
 
    (3,892
    )

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

    Total comprehensive loss    


 
 
    —
 
 
 
    —
 
 
 
    —
 
 
 
    —
 
 
 
    —
 
 
 
    —
 
 
 
    —
 
 
 
    —
 
 
 
    —
 
 
 
    (150,397
    )

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

    Balance at December 31, 2005    


 
 
    181,933,035
 
 
    $
    976,447
 
 
    $
    —
 
 
 
    —
 
 
    $
    —
 
 
 
 
 
 
    $
    (77
    )
 
    $
    (654,602
    )
 
    $
    820
 
 
    $
    322,588
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 



 
    See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.
        F-5
Table of Contents

 
    XO    Communications, Inc., predecessor to XO Holdings, Inc.


 
    Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows    
(Dollars in thousands)

 
     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     Predecessor XO    


 

 
 
    Year Ended    December 31,


 
 
 
    January 1,    


 

 
 
    2005


 
 
    2004


 
 
    2003


 
 
 
    2003


 

    OPERATING ACTIVITIES:



 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

    Net (loss) income    


 
 
    (146,505
    )
 
 
    (405,543
    )
 
 
    (102,554
    )
 
 
 
    3,032,282
 

    Adjustments to reconcile net    (loss) income to net cash (used in) provided by operating    activities:    


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

    Goodwill impairment charge    


 
 
    —
 
 
 
    212,530
 
 
 
    —
 
 
 
 
    —
 

    Depreciation and amortization    


 
 
    234,762
 
 
 
    177,781
 
 
 
    109,308
 
 
 
 
    —
 

    Accrual of interest    


 
 
    34,866
 
 
 
    27,068
 
 
 
    36,791
 
 
 
 
    —
 

    Stock-based compensation    


 
 
    147
 
 
 
    406
 
 
 
    708
 
 
 
 
    —
 

    Realized (gain) loss on investments    


 
 
    (7,449
    )
 
 
    5,238
 
 
 
    (27,224
    )
 
 
 
    —
 

    Non-cash restructuring charges and    asset write-downs    


 
 
    5,500
 
 
 
    10,360
 
 
 
    6,765
 
 
 
 
    —
 

    Non-cash reorganization gain, net    


 
 
    —
 
 
 
    —
 
 
 
    —
 
 
 
 
    (3,032,282
    )

    Changes in assets and liabilities,    net of effects from acquisitions:    


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

    Accounts receivable    


 
 
    12,537
 
 
 
    (8,084
    )
 
 
    22,583
 
 
 
 
    —
 

    Other assets    


 
 
    2,459
 
 
 
    (9,952
    )
 
 
    1,317
 
 
 
 
    —
 

    Accounts payable    


 
 
    (4,043
    )
 
 
    8,503
 
 
 
    (7,568
    )
 
 
 
    —
 

    Accrued liabilities    


 
 
    (23,294
    )
 
 
    (18,157
    )
 
 
    (33,825
    )
 
 
 
    —
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

    Net cash provided by operating    activities    


 
 
    108,980
 
 
 
    150
 
 
 
    6,301
 
 
 
 
    —
 

    INVESTING ACTIVITIES:



 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

    Capital expenditures, net    


 
 
    (86,727
    )
 
 
    (106,023
    )
 
 
    (82,346
    )
 
 
 
    —
 

    Release of escrow account    


 
 
    25,430
 
 
 
    —
 
 
 
    —
 
 
 
 
    —
 

    Purchases of marketable securities    and investments    


 
 
    —
 
 
 
    (36,413
    )
 
 
    (238,041
    )
 
 
 
    —
 

    Sale of marketable securities and    investments    


 
 
    6,145
 
 
 
    22,848
 
 
 
    473,423
 
 
 
 
 
 

    Cash paid for acquisitions    


 
 
    (1,071
    )
 
 
    (325,249
    )
 
 
    —
 
 
 
 
    —
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

    Net cash (used in) provided by    investing activities    


 
 
    (56,223
    )
 
 
    (444,837
    )
 
 
    153,036
 
 
 
 
    —
 

    FINANCING ACTIVITIES:



 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

    Proceeds from issuance of common    stock, net    


 
 
    —
 
 
 
    200,326
 
 
 
    6,452
 
 
 
 
    —
 

    Proceeds from issuance of    preferred stock, net    


 
 
    —
 
 
 
    199,443
 
 
 
    —
 
 
 
 
    —
 

    Repayments of long term debt and    capital leases    


 
 
    (109,908
    )
 
 
    (199,653
    )
 
 
    (1,267
    )
 
 
 
    —
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

    Net cash (used in) provided by    financing activities    


 
 
    (109,908
    )
 
 
    200,116
 
 
 
    5,185
 
 
 
 
    —
 

    Net (decrease) increase in cash    and cash equivalents    


 
 
    (57,151
    )
 
 
    (244,571
    )
 
 
    164,522
 
 
 
 
    —
 

    Cash and cash equivalents,    beginning of year    


 
 
    233,989
 
 
 
    478,560
 
 
 
    314,038
 
 
 
 
    314,038
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

    Cash and cash equivalents, end of    year    


 
 
    176,838
 
 
 
    233,989
 
 
 
    478,560
 
 
 
 
    314,038  
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 



 
    See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.
        F-6
Table of Contents

    XO    Communications, Inc., predecessor to XO Holdings, Inc.


 
    Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements    
December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003

 
    
    

        1.  


        ORGANIZATION    AND DESCRIPTION OF BUSINESS




 
    XO Communications, Inc. (“XOC”, “Seller”, or    the “Company”), the predecessor to XO Holdings, Inc.    (“XO Holdings”), is a leading facilities-based,    competitive telecommunications services provider that delivers a    comprehensive array of telecommunications services to business    customers. The Company operates its business in two business    units through two primary operating subsidiaries, which are    referred to as the Wireless Business and the Wireline Business.    See Note 3 for financial information for the Company's    business units. As discussed further below under the heading    “Wireline Sale”, on November 4, 2005 the Company    entered into an agreement to sell the Wireline Business.
 
    Wireline    Business Overview


 
    The Company's wireline telecommunications business    (“the Wireline Business”), through XO Communications,    LLC (“XO LLC”) and its subsidiaries, owns and operates    an integrated metropolitan and nationwide fiber optic network    that provides a comprehensive array of telecommunications    services to business customers in over 70 United States markets.    Voice services include local and long distance services, prepaid    calling card processing and interactive voice response systems.    Data services include Internet access, private data networking    and hosting services. XO LLC, through its subsidiaries, also    offers integrated voice and data services in flat rate    “bundled” packages.
 
    Wireless    Business Overview


 
    In addition to the Wireline Business, through its wholly owned    subsidiary, XO LMDS Holdings No. 1, Inc. (“LMDS    Co.”), the Company owns licenses to deliver    telecommunications services via local multipoint distribution    service (“LMDS”) wireless spectrum in more than 70    U.S. cities through its Wireless Business. The Wireless    Business is in the early stages of development, and currently    offers wireless T-1s, wireless dedicated internet access, and    wireless Ethernet services utilizing broadband radio signals    transmitted between points of presence located within a    line-of-sight
    over distances of between three to seven miles. LMDS Co.    currently operates in California and Florida, and is in the    early stages of deploying its wireless communication networks in    Georgia, Texas, and California.
 
    Wireline    Sale


 
    On November 4, 2005, XO Holdings and XOC entered into an    equity purchase agreement (the “Equity Purchase    Agreement”) that, as amended on March 1, 2006,    provides for the sale of the Wireline Business (the    “Wireline Sale”) through the sale of all of the    outstanding LLC interests in XO LLC, a newly formed,    wholly-owned subsidiary of XO Holdings, for an aggregate    purchase price of $700 million, consisting of    $625 million in cash and the assumption of $75 million    of our outstanding senior secured debt. Assuming the Wireline    Sale closed on March 1, 2006, the Company would have used    approximately $451.0 million of the proceeds of the    Wireline Sale to repay, in accordance with the existing Credit    Facility, all but $75 million of the Company's    remaining senior secured debt and to offer to redeem its    outstanding preferred stock. Following the Wireline Sale, the    Company will be debt-free and currently expects to have more    than $300 million in cash to fund the development of its    Wireless Business and for other corporate purposes.
 
    The Company's board of directors (the “Board”)    determined, with Messrs. Icahn, Intrieri, Meister and Weber    abstaining, based upon the unanimous approval and recommendation    of a Special Committee of the Board, which Special Committee    consisted of its independent, non-management directors, that the    terms of the Equity Purchase Agreement and the transactions    contemplated thereby (including the Wireline Sale and the    amendment to the Equity Purchase Agreement) are fair to,    advisable and in the best interests of the Company and its    stockholders. The Special Committee was advised by independent    legal counsel and relied on Jefferies & Company, Inc.    (“Jefferies”) for financial advice.
        F-7
Table of Contents

    With the assistance of Jefferies, the Company conducted an    extensive solicitation and auction process for the sale of the    Wireline Business. Simultaneously, Jefferies explored and    developed viable strategic alternatives to such a sale,    including the refinancing of the Company's outstanding    senior secured debt. At the conclusion of this process, which    was overseen by the Special Committee, the Special Committee    concluded that the Wireline Sale was in the best interests of    the Company and its stockholders. With the assistance of the    Special Committee's counsel and the Company's outside    counsel, the Special Committee negotiated the terms of the    Equity Purchase Agreement and the related transaction documents,    adopted and approved the Equity Purchase Agreement and the    transactions contemplated thereby (including the Wireline Sale    and the Equity Purchase Agreement), and recommended the adoption    and approval thereof by the Board. At the time of its    recommendation to the Board, the Special Committee had received    an opinion from Jefferies to the effect that the consideration    to be paid pursuant to the Purchase Agreement in connection with    the Wireline Sale was fair from a financial point of view. As a    result, the Special Committee and the Board have adopted and    approved the Purchase Agreement and the transactions    contemplated thereby, including the Wireline Sale and the    Amendment.
 
    The winning bidder was Elk Associates LLC (the    “Buyer”), an entity owned by our controlling    stockholder, Mr. Carl Icahn (“Mr. Icahn”),    which has executed the Equity Purchase Agreement to purchase the    Wireline Business. As provided in the Equity Purchase Agreement,    XO Holdings and the Special Committee remain open to    consideration of superior proposals from third parties in    certain events, subject to paying the Buyer a    break-up
 fee    of 1% of the consideration payable in the transaction in the    event that XO Holdings receives and determines to accept a    superior proposal.
 
    The Purchase Agreement conditions the Wireline Sale upon the    affirmative vote of the holders of a majority of the voting    power of the Company's outstanding capital stock entitled    to vote on the Equity Purchase Agreement and the transactions    contemplated thereby (including the Wireline Sale and the    amendment to the Equity Purchase Agreement). The sale of all of    the equity interests in XO LLC held by the Company as    contemplated by the Wireline Sale pursuant to the Purchase    Agreement may be deemed a sale of substantially all of the    assets of the Company, thus requiring stockholder approval.    Cardiff Holding LLC (“Cardiff”), which beneficially    owns approximately 62% of the Company's outstanding common    stock and approximately 95% of the Company's outstanding    preferred stock, has entered into a Stockholder Voting    Agreement, dated as of November 4, 2005 (the    “Stockholder Voting Agreement”) with the Company,    which requires Cardiff to vote all of its shares of the    Company's capital stock in favor of the adoption and    approval of (i) the Equity Purchase Agreement and the    transactions contemplated thereby, or (ii) if the Special    Committee ultimately determines in accordance with the Equity    Purchase Agreement that certain third party proposals are    superior to the Wireline Sale contemplated by the Equity    Purchase Agreement, such superior proposal. As a result of the    Stockholder Voting Agreement, unless the Purchase Agreement is    terminated prior to our annual meeting in accordance with its    terms, including in connection with a superior proposal, it is    assured that, at the annual meeting, the Equity Purchase    Agreement and the transactions contemplated thereby (including    the Wireline Sale and the amendment to the Equity Purchase    Agreement) will be adopted and approved by the Company's    stockholders.
 
    The    Restructuring


 
    XO Holdings was initially formed as the wholly-owned subsidiary    of XOC on October 25, 2005. On such date, XO LLC was formed    as XO Holdings' wholly-owned subsidiary. To facilitate the    Wireline Sale, on February 28, 2006, XOC and XO LLC    consummated the restructuring merger contemplated by the    Purchase Agreement (the “Restructuring Merger”), in    which XOC merged with and into XO LLC, with XO LLC being the    entity that survived the Restructuring Merger. Upon the    completion of the Restructuring Merger, XO Holdings succeeded to    XOC's business and all shares of XOC capital stock options,    warrants and other rights to acquire shares of capital stock,    which were converted into corresponding shares of XO    Holdings' capital stock, and corresponding options,    warrants or other rights to acquire shares of XO Holdings'    capital stock. In connection with the Restructuring Merger, all    directors of XOC became XO Holdings' directors, and all    board committees, including the Special Committee described    below, continued with the same membership. The
        F-8
Table of Contents

    Restructuring Merger was consummated in accordance with    Section 251(g) of the Delaware General Corporation Law, and    did not require stockholder approval to be completed.
 
    
    

        2.  


        SUMMARY    OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES




 
    (a) Basis    of Presentation


 
    The Company's consolidated financial statements include all    of the assets, liabilities and results of operations of    subsidiaries in which the Company has a controlling interest.    All inter-company accounts and transactions among consolidated    entities have been eliminated.
 
    (b) Use    of Estimates and Assumptions


 
    The preparation of consolidated financial statements in    conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the    United States requires management to make estimates and    assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and    liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities    at the date of the consolidated financial statements and the    reported amounts of revenue and expenses during the reporting    period. Management periodically assesses the accuracy of these    estimates and assumptions. Actual results could differ from    those estimates.
 
    Certain reclassifications have been made to prior period amounts    in order to conform to the current year presentation.
 
    (c) Cash    and Cash Equivalents


 
    The Company considers all highly liquid investments with    maturities of three months or less at the time of purchase to be    cash equivalents. The carrying amount of these instruments    approximates fair value due to their short maturities.
 
    (d) Marketable    Securities and Other Investments


 
    The Company's marketable securities consist of equity    investments in publicly traded companies. The Company classifies    its investments in equity securities as    available-for-sale
    and records such investments at fair value. The fair values are    based on quoted market prices. Other investments, which include    investments in debt securities that do not meet the definition    of a marketable security, are recorded at cost, which    approximates fair value. Unrealized gains and losses on    available-for-sale
    marketable securities are reported as a separate component of    comprehensive income. Realized gains and losses for    available-for-sale
    securities are recognized in investment income.
 
    (e) Impairment    of Long-Lived Assets


 
    Long-lived assets include property and equipment, broadband    wireless licenses, and intangible assets with finite useful    lives to be held and used. Long-lived assets are reviewed for    impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate    that the carrying amount should be addressed pursuant to    Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 144,    “Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived    Assets” (“SFAS No. 144”). The criteria    for determining impairment for such long-lived assets to be held    and used is determined by comparing the carrying value of these    long-lived assets to management's best estimate of future    undiscounted cash flows expected to result from the use of the    assets. In the event that a long-lived asset is deemed impaired,    a loss is recognized for the amount that the carrying value    exceeds the fair value. If the fair value exceeds the carrying    value, no gain is recognized. The Company believes that no    impairment existed under SFAS No. 144 as of    December 31, 2005. In the event that there are changes in    the planned use of the Company's long-lived assets or its    expected future undiscounted cash flows are reduced    significantly, the Company's assessment of its ability to    recover the carrying value of these assets under    SFAS No. 144 could change.
        F-9
Table of Contents

    (f) Property    and Equipment


 
    Additions to property and equipment subsequent to    January 1, 2003 are stated at cost. Property and equipment    acquired prior to December 31, 2002 is stated at its fair    value at January 1, 2003. Depreciation is calculated on a    straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives of the    assets beginning in the month telecommunications networks and    acquired bandwidth are substantially complete and available for    use, and in the month equipment and furniture are acquired.    Telecommunications networks and bandwidth include the deployment    of fiber optic cable and telecommunications hardware and    software for the expressed purpose of delivering    telecommunications services. Costs of additions and improvements    are capitalized, and repairs and maintenance are charged to    expense as incurred. Direct costs of constructing property and    equipment are capitalized including interest costs related to    construction.
 
    Equipment held under capital leases are stated at the lower of    the fair value of the asset or the net present value of the    minimum lease payments at the inception of the lease. For    equipment held under capital leases, depreciation is provided    using the straight-line method over the shorter of the estimated    useful lives of the leased assets or the related lease term.
 
    The estimated useful lives of property and equipment are as    follows:
 
     
	     
	     
	
    Telecommunications networks and    acquired bandwidth    


 
    3-20 years    


    Furniture, fixtures, equipment,    and other    


 
    5-7 years    


    Leasehold improvements    


 
    the shorter of the estimated    useful lives    or the terms of the leases    




 
    These useful lives are determined based on historical usage with    consideration given to technological changes and trends in the    industry, which could impact the network architecture and asset    utilization. Accordingly, in making this assessment, the Company    considers its planned use of the assets, the views of experts    within the Company and outside sources regarding the impact of    technological advances and trends in the industry on the value    and useful lives of its network assets. The Company periodically    evaluates the estimated useful lives used to depreciate its    assets. While the Company believes its estimate of useful lives    are reasonable, significant differences in actual experience or    significant changes in assumptions may affect future    depreciation expenses.
 
    (g) Broadband    Wireless Licenses


 
    Broadband wireless licenses are stated at their fair values at    January 1, 2003. The Company is amortizing these licenses    over the portion of the original license term remaining after    the license is placed into service, or 10 years, whichever    is shorter. Amortization commences when commercial service using    broadband wireless technology is deployed in the license's    geographic area.
 
    The Company's Broadband Wireless Licenses are currently    considered finite lived assets as the Company has no history of    success or failure in renewing licenses upon expiration.    Accordingly, these assets are evaluated for impairment in    accordance with SFAS No. 144.
 
    (h) Impairment    of Goodwill and Indefinite Lived Intangible Assets


 
    Goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite useful lives are    tested for impairment annually during the fourth quarter, or    more frequently if an event indicates that the asset(s) might be    impaired, in accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting    Standards No. 142, “Goodwill and Other Intangible    Assets” (“SFAS No. 142”). The Company    believes that no impairment existed under SFAS No. 142    as of December 31, 2005.
 
    The Company retained independent appraisers to perform a    preliminary valuation of its assets and liabilities as of    December 31, 2004. This valuation was necessary as the    Company's fair value as determined by its stock price, was    less than its book value. Based on this valuation, the Company    recorded a $212.5 million non-cash impairment charge on its    goodwill. This report was finalized in the first quarter of    2005, and did not result in a change to this preliminary    estimate.
        F-10
Table of Contents

    (i) Other    Assets


 
    As of December 31, 2005, other assets consists of an    unsecured debt claim receivable (the “ATLT Debt    Claim”) from the Allegiance Telecom Liquidating Trust (the    “ATLT”), the trustee that is managing the bankruptcy    estate of Allegiance Telecom, Inc. (“ATI”) and its    subsidiaries. Allegiance and its direct and indirect    subsidiaries operated as    debtors-in-possession
    under the Bankruptcy Code from May 14, 2003 to    June 23, 2004. As of December 31, 2005 and 2004, other    assets consisted primarily of the Debt Claim, security deposits    and pledged securities.
 
    The fair value of the ATLT Debt Claim is calculated based on the    estimated value of the Company's share of the remaining net    assets of the ATLT using publicly available information. Because    of the nature of the estimates and uncertainties used in the    valuation of the net assets of the ATLT and the Debt Claim, the    amount that the Company recovers from the ATLT upon the    distribution of the net assets of the trust may vary materially    from the carrying value. The security deposits and pledged    securities are stated at cost, and their fair value approximates    their carrying value.
 
    (j) Income    Taxes


 
    The Company accounts for income taxes in accordance with the    provisions of SFAS No. 109, “Accounting for    Income Taxes,” (“SFAS No. 109”) which    requires that deferred income taxes are determined based on the    estimated future tax effects of differences between the    financial statement and tax bases of assets and liabilities    given the provisions of the enacted tax laws. Valuation    allowances are used to reduce deferred tax assets to the amount    considered likely to be realized.
 
    (k) Class A    Convertible Preferred Stock


 
    The Company accretes changes in the redemption value of its    Class A Convertible Preferred Stock as they occur and    adjusts the carrying value of the security to equal the    redemption value at the end of each reporting period. The    accretion is included in net income (loss) applicable to common    shares in the Company's consolidated statements of    operations and of stockholders equity.
 
    (l) Revenue    Recognition


 
    Revenues from telecommunications services are recognized when    the services are performed, evidence of an arrangement exists,    the fee is fixed and determinable and collectibility is    probable. In circumstances when these criteria are not met,    revenue recognition is deferred until resolution occurs.
 
    Service discounts and incentives related to telecommunications    services are recorded as a reduction of revenue when granted or    ratably over a contract period. Fees billed in connection with    service installations and other non-recurring charges related to    the ongoing service are deferred and recognized ratably over the    estimated customer life.
 
    Revenue from the sale or lease of unlit network capacity is    recognized upon consummation of the transaction and the    acquirer's acceptance of the capacity in instances when the    Company receives upfront cash payments and is contractually    obligated to transfer title to the specified capacity at the end    of the contract term. If the transaction does not meet these    criteria, revenue is recognized ratably over the contract term.    There were no sales of unlit capacity during the reported    periods whereby revenue was recognized “up front” upon    consummation of the transaction.
 
    (m) Allowance    for uncollectible accounts


 
    The Company establishes allowances for collection of doubtful    accounts and other sales credit adjustments. Allowances for    sales credits are recorded as a reduction to revenue, while    allowances for doubtful accounts are recorded as a selling,    operating and general expense. The Company assesses the adequacy    of these allowances at least quarterly by considering general    factors, such as the length of time individual receivables are    past due, historical collection experience, the economic and    competitive environment, and changes in the creditworthiness of    its customers. The Company believes that the established    valuation
        F-11
Table of Contents

    allowances are adequate. If circumstances relating to specific    customers change or economic conditions worsen such that the    Company's past collection experience and assessment of the    economic environment are no longer relevant, the estimate of the    recoverability of its trade receivables could be further reduced.
 
    (n) Cost    of Service


 
    Cost of service includes expenses directly associated with    providing telecommunications services to customers, including,    among other items, the cost of connecting customers to the    Company's networks via leased facilities, the costs of    leasing components of our network facilities and costs paid to    third party providers for interconnect access and transport    services. All such costs are expensed as incurred. The Company    accrues for the expected costs of services received from third    party telecommunications providers during the period the    services are rendered. Invoices received from the third party    telecommunications providers are often disputed due to billing    discrepancies. The Company accrues for all disputed invoiced    amounts as these amounts represent contingent liabilities that    are considered probable and measurable and typically must pay    the invoiced amounts even while they're being disputed.    Disputes resolved in the Company's favor may reduce cost of    service in the period the dispute is settled. Because the period    of time required to resolve these types of disputes often lapses    over several quarters, any benefits associated with the    favorable resolution of such disputes normally are realized in    periods subsequent to the accrual of the disputed invoice.    Certain of these favorable dispute resolutions, settlements and    estimate revisions resulted in reductions in cost of service of    approximately $40.6 and $8.9 million for the years ended    December 31, 2005 and 2004, respectively.
 
    (o) Net    Income (Loss) Per Share


 
    Net income (loss) per common share, basic and diluted, is    computed by dividing net income (loss) applicable to common    shares by the weighted average number of common shares    outstanding for the period. In periods of net loss, the assumed    common share equivalents for options and warrants are    anti-dilutive.
 
    (p) Stock-Based    Compensation


 
    Effective January 1, 2003, the Company adopted the    disclosure provisions of SFAS No. 148,    “Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation-Transition and    Disclosure,” (“SFAS No. 148”). As    allowed by SFAS No. 148, the Company has chosen to    continue to account for compensation cost associated with its    employee stock plan in accordance with the intrinsic value    method prescribed by APB No. 25, “Accounting for Stock    Issued to Employees,” (“APB No. 25”)    adopting the disclosure-only provisions of    SFAS No. 123. Under this method, no compensation    expense is recorded if stock options are granted at an exercise    price equal to or greater than the fair market value of the    Company's stock on the grant date. If the Company had    adopted the fair value method of accounting for its stock    awards, stock-based compensation would have been determined    based on the fair value for all stock awards at the grant date    using the Black-Scholes pricing model and the following weighted    average assumptions:
 
     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	
 
 
    2005


 
 
    2004


 
 
    2003


 

 

    Expected volatility    


 
 
    61.0
    %
 
 
    61.0
    %
 
 
    75.0
    %

    Risk free interest rate    


 
 
    3.8
    %
 
 
    3.1
    %
 
 
    2.6
    %

    Dividend yield    


 
 
    0.0
    %
 
 
    0.0
    %
 
 
    0.0
    %

    Expected life (range in years)    


 
 
    4.0
 
 
 
    4.0
 
 
 
    4.0
 

    Fair value per share at grant date    


 
    $
    0.90
 
 
    $
    2.19
 
 
    $
    2.95
 



        F-12
Table of Contents

    The Company's pro forma net loss applicable to common    shares, and pro forma net loss per common share, basic and    diluted, if the Company had used the fair value method would    have been as follows (dollars in thousands, except per share    data):
 
     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	
 
 
    Year Ended    December 31,


 

 
 
    2005


 
 
    2004


 
 
    2003


 

 

    Net loss applicable to common    shares, as reported    


 
    $
    (159,208
    )
 
    $
    (410,453
    )
 
    $
    (102,554
    )

    Add: Stock-based employee    compensation expense included in net loss applicable to common    shares, as reported    


 
 
    147
 
 
 
    406
 
 
 
    708
 

    Deduct: Total stock-based employee    compensation expense determined under fair value based methods    for all stock awards    


 
 
    (5,973
    )
 
 
    (7,966
    )
 
 
    (16,189
    )

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

    Pro forma net loss applicable to    common shares    


 
    $
    (165,034
    )
 
    $
    (418,013
    )
 
    $
    (118,035
    )

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

    Net loss per common share, basic    and diluted:    


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

    Net loss per common share, basic    and diluted —  as reported    


 
    $
    (0.88
    )
 
    $
    (2.57
    )
 
    $
    (1.07
    )

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

    Net loss per common share, basic    and diluted —  pro forma    


 
    $
    (0.91
    )
 
    $
    (2.30
    )
 
    $
    (1.23
    )

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 



 
    (q) Comprehensive    Loss


 
    Comprehensive loss includes the Company's net loss    applicable to common shares, as well as net unrealized gains and    losses on    available-for-sale
    investments.
 
    (r) Concentration    of Credit Risk


 
    Financial instruments that potentially subject the Company to    significant concentrations of credit risk consist principally of    cash and cash equivalents and trade accounts receivable. The    Company places its cash and cash equivalents and other financial    instruments with high credit quality financial institutions.
 
    While the trade receivables of the Company's Wireline    Business are geographically dispersed and include customers in    many different industries, a portion of its revenue is generated    from services provided to other telecommunications service    providers. Over the last several years many of these companies    have filed for protection under Chapter 11 of the    Bankruptcy Code while others have experienced business    downturns. The Company believes that its established valuation    and credit allowances are adequate to cover these risks.
 
    (s) Fair    Value of Financial Instruments


 
    SFAS No. 107, “Disclosure about Fair Value of    Financial Instruments”    (“SFAS No. 107”), requires disclosure of    fair value information about financial instruments, for which it    is practicable to estimate the value. The carrying amounts for    the majority of the Company's financial instruments    classified as current assets and liabilities approximate their    fair value due to their short maturities. Marketable securities    are recorded at fair value. Amounts outstanding under long-term    debt agreements approximate their estimated fair values as they    accrue interest at rates that are variable every 3-6 months.
 
    (t) Recent    Accounting Pronouncements


 
    Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 123    (revised 2004), “Share-Based Payment”    (“SFAS No. 123R”), was issued in December    2004. Once effective, this statement will require entities to    recognize compensation cost for all equity-classified awards    granted, modified or settled after the effective date using a    fair-value measurement method. In addition, public companies    will recognize compensation expense for the unvested portion of    awards outstanding as of the effective date based on their    grant-date fair value as calculated under the original    provisions of SFAS No. 123. The effective date for the    Company is the fiscal year beginning January 1, 2006. The    amount of compensation expense that the Company records after    the adoption of SFAS No. 123R in 2006 and beyond will    depend on the amount, timing and pricing of stock option grants.    However, the Company believes that the impact on its financial    position and results of
        F-13
Table of Contents

    operations in 2006 will be less than the pro forma impact for    the year ended December 31, 2005 disclosed in (p) above    based on the grants currently outstanding.
 
    Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 154,    Accounting Changes and Error    Corrections  —  a replacement of APB    Opinion No. 20 and FASB Statement No. 3 
was issued    in May 2005. This statement provides guidance on the accounting    for and reporting of changes in accounting principles and error    corrections. It requires retrospective application to prior    periods' financial statements of changes in accounting    principle, unless it is impracticable to determine either the    period-specific effects or the cumulative effect of the change.    The statement is effective for accounting changes and    corrections of errors made in fiscal years beginning after    December 15, 2005.
 
    Financial Accounting Standards Board Interpretation No. 47,    “Accounting for Conditional Asset Retirement    Obligations,” (“FIN 47”) an interpretation    of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 143,    “Accounting for Asset Retirement Obligations”    (“FAS 143”) was issued in March 2005, and is    effective for fiscal years ended after December 15, 2005.    FIN 47 clarifies that the term “conditional asset    retirement obligation,” as used in FAS 143 refers to a    legal obligation to per form an asset retirement activity in    which the timing and/or method of settlement are conditional on    a future event that may or may not be within the control of the    entity. The obligation to perform the asset retirement activity    is unconditional even though uncertainty exist about the timing    and/or method of settlement. FIN 47 requires a company to    recognize the liability for the fair value of the conditional    asset retirement obligation if the fair value of the liability    can be reasonably estimated. Any liability accrued is offset by    an increase in the value of the asset. The adoption of    FIN 47 did not have a material impact on the Company's    financial statements.
 
    
    

             


        (u) Accounting    for Leases




 
    Payments under the Company's operating leases, other than    executory costs, are expensed on a straight-line basis over the    lease term. Leasehold improvement allowances or other incentives    funded by landlord under an operating lease are recorded as    leasehold improvement assets and amortized over the shorter of    their economic lives or the lease term. The allowances and    incentives are recorded as deferred rent and amortized as    reductions to lease expense over the lease term.
 
    (v) Adjustments


 
    In the second quarter of 2005, in conjunction with a review of    certain accounting policies, the Company determined that it was    not applying the proper generally accepted accounting principles    to lease escalation provisions contained in certain of its    operating leases since its emergence from bankruptcy in January    2003. Additionally, the Company determined that depreciation    expense related to certain assets had been calculated using    lives inconsistent with the Company's depreciation policy,    and that certain leasehold improvements had not been expensed    when the related lease contract had been terminated prior to the    end of the original lease term. Accordingly, an adjustment of    $7.8 million was recorded to increase selling, operating    and general expenses and other current liabilities, and an    adjustment of $1.5 million was recorded to increase    depreciation expense and to reduce Property and Equipment, net    during the year ended December 31, 2005. The impact of    these adjustments would have increased selling operating and    general expense by approximately $3.3 million and    $4.5 million for the years ended December 31, 2004,    December 31, 2003, respectively, and would have increased    depreciation expense by approximately $1.0 million,    $.5 million for the years ended December 31, 2004,    December 31, 2003, respectively had they been recorded in    the appropriate periods. The Company has concluded that these    adjustments are immaterial to the financial statements on both a    quantitative and qualitative basis for previously issued    financial statements, and to the results of operations for the    year ending December 31, 2005. Accordingly, the adjustments    have been made in the current period financial statements. These    adjustments do not affect the Company's historical or    future cash flows or the timing of payments under the relevant    leases.
 
    
    

        3.  


        OPERATING    SEGMENTS




 
    Reportable    Segments


 
    Historically, the Company has operated its business as one    telecommunications segment. As a result of the strategic    decision to enter into the Wireline Sale, the Company    anticipates internally analyzing and
        F-14
Table of Contents

    reporting separately on the results of operations of the    Wireline Business and the Wireless Business beginning in 2006    and, accordingly, those business units will be reported as    “segments”, as required under Statement of Financial    Accounting Standards No. 131, “Disclosures about    Segments of an Enterprise and Related Information”    (“SFAS No. 131”) at that time. Supplementary    reporting on the results of operations of our business units for    the years ended December 31, 2005 and 2004 is included    below. Because the Wireless Business did not have significant    operations prior to 2004, 2003 has not been presented as it is    not practicable to do so.
 
    Supplementary    Business Unit Reporting


 
    The Company has strategic business units that offer different    products and services using different technology and sales and    marketing strategies: the Wireline Business and the Wireless    Business. The Wireless Business provides fixed wireless    telecommunications products and services delivered through    wireless communications networks that it designs, installs, and    operates, primarily in Florida. The Wireline Business is a    facilities-based, competitive telecommunications services    provider that delivers a comprehensive array of    telecommunications services to business customers in over 70    United States markets through its national telecommunications    network.
 
    As discussed in Note 1, on November 4, 2005 the    Company entered into an agreement to sell the Wireline Business    and focus on developing the Wireless Business.
 
    There were no transactions between the Company's business    units during 2004 or 2005. The Company does not allocate general    corporate overhead costs to the two business units. The Company    believes, however, that substantially all of the general    overhead expenses were incurred in support of the Wireline    Business. Interest expense, interest income, investment income    (loss), and other non-operating income are managed only on a    consolidated basis. The Company attributes all of the assets not    specifically related to the provision of Wireless Business    services to the Wireline Business other than cash and cash    equivalents and marketable securities and other investments,    which it attributes to corporate operations.
 
     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	
 
 
    Year Ended December 31,    2005


 

 
 
    Wireline


 
 
    Wireless


 
 
    Corporate


 
 
    Consolidated


 

 

    Business unit revenue    


 
    $
    1,433,416
 
 
    $
    206
 
 
    $
    —
 
 
    $
    1,433,622
 

    Business unit costs and expenses:    


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

    Cost of service (exclusive of    depreciation and amortization)    


 
 
    587,904
 
 
 
    —
 
 
 
    —
 
 
 
    587,904
 

    Selling, operating, and general    


 
 
    548,705
 
 
 
    3,261
 
 
 
    185,384
 
 
 
    737,350
 

    Depreciation and amortization    


 
 
    228,435
 
 
 
    6,327
 
 
 
    —
 
 
 
    234,762
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

    Total business unit costs and    expenses    


 
 
    1,365,044
 
 
 
    9,588
 
 
 
    185,384
 
 
 
    1,560,016
 

    Business unit income (loss)    


 
    $
    68,372
 
 
    $
    (9,382
    )
 
    $
    (185,384
    )
 
    $
    (126,394
    )

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

    Total business unit assets    


 
    $
    975,268
 
 
    $
    43,469
 
 
    $
    183,988
 
 
    $
    1,202,725
 



 
     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	
 
 
    Year Ended December 31,    2004


 

 
 
    Wireline


 
 
    Wireless


 
 
    Corporate


 
 
    Consolidated


 

 

    Business unit revenue    


 
    $
    1,300,420
 
 
    $
    —
 
 
    $
    —
 
 
    $
    1,300,420
 

    Business unit costs and expenses:    


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

    Cost of service (exclusive of    depreciation and amortization)    


 
 
    552,735
 
 
 
    —
 
 
 
    —
 
 
 
    552,735
 

    Selling, operating, and general    


 
 
    574,312
 
 
 
    801
 
 
 
    152,553
 
 
 
    727,666
 

    Depreciation and amortization    


 
 
    171,454
 
 
 
    6,327
 
 
 
    —
 
 
 
    177,781
 

    Goodwill impairment charge    


 
 
    212,530
 
 
 
    —
 
 
 
    —
 
 
 
    212,530
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

    Total business unit costs and    expenses    


 
 
    1,511,031
 
 
 
    7,128
 
 
 
    152,553
 
 
 
    1,670,712
 

    Business unit loss    


 
    $
    (210,611
    )
 
    $
    (7,128
    )
 
    $
    (152,553
    )
 
    $
    (370,292
    )

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

    Total business unit assets    


 
    $
    1,161,242
 
 
    $
    46,854
 
 
    $
    251,289
 
 
    $
    1,459,385
 



        F-15
Table of Contents

    Products    and Services


 
    The Company classifies its services revenues offered by its    telecommunications segment into voice services, data services    and integrated voice and data services (dollars in thousands):
 
     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	
 
 
    Year Ended    


 
 
    Year Ended    


 
 
    Year Ended    


 

 
 
    December 31,    


 
 
    December 31,    


 
 
    December 31,    


 

 
 
    2005


 
 
    2004


 
 
    2003


 

 

    Voice services    


 
    $
    734,412
 
 
    $
    673,318
 
 
    $
    572,774
 

    Data services    


 
 
    432,358
 
 
 
    414,782
 
 
 
    392,742
 

    Integrated voice and data services    


 
 
    266,852
 
 
 
    212,320
 
 
 
    144,967
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

    Total revenue    


 
    $
    1,433,622
 
 
    $
    1,300,420
 
 
    $
    1,110,483
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 



 
    All revenues earned by the Wireless Business are included in    voice services.
 
    
    

        4.  


        BUSINESS    COMBINATIONS




 
    On June 23, 2004, XOC, the Company's predecessor,    completed the acquisition of all of the local exchange carrier    businesses (the “Acquired Businesses”) of ATI under    the terms of the Asset Purchase Agreement the (“Purchase    Agreement”) entered into on February 18, 2004 by and    among the Company, ATI and Allegiance Telecom Company Worldwide    (together with ATI, “Allegiance”), and approved by the    United States Bankruptcy Court for the Southern District of New    York (the “Bankruptcy Court”) on February 19,    2004. Allegiance and its direct and indirect subsidiaries    operated as    debtors-in-possession
    under the Bankruptcy Code from May 14, 2003 to    June 23, 2004. Allegiance was a facilities-based national    local exchange carrier that provided integrated    telecommunications services to business, government and other    institutional customers in 36 major metropolitan areas across    the United States. Allegiance's service offerings included    voice, data, and integrated telecommunications services. The    Company did not acquire Allegiance's customer premises    installation and maintenance business, shared hosting business,    or dedicated    dial-up
    Internet access service business.
 
    Under the Purchase Agreement, XOC paid approximately    $636.6 million for the Acquired Businesses consisting of    approximately $325.2 million of cash, including    $14.1 million of adjustments for working capital and direct    costs, and 45,380,000 shares of XOC common stock valued at    approximately $311.3 million using XOC's common stock    market price for a reasonable period before and after the    Allegiance acquisition was announced.
 
    Upon the Closing Date, XOC acquired title to the Acquired    Businesses. XOC retained independent appraisers to determine the    fair value of the property, plant and equipment and intangible    assets acquired as required under SFAS 141 “Business    Combinations”, (“SFAS No 141”). The    following are the estimated fair values of assets acquired and    liabilities assumed as of the Closing Date (dollars in    thousands):
 
     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	
    Current assets    


 
    $
    51,618
 

    Property and equipment    


 
 
    372,405
 

    Goodwill    


 
 
    212,530
 

    Other intangible assets    


 
 
    68,052
 

    Other long-term assets    


 
 
    2,933
 

 
 
 
 
 

    Total assets acquired    


 
 
    707,538
 

    Current liabilities    


 
 
    (58,193
    )

    Long-term liabilities    


 
 
    (12,790
    )

 
 
 
 
 

    Total liabilities acquired    


 
 
    (70,983
    )

 
 
 
 
 

    Purchase price    


 
    $
    636,555
 

 
 
 
 
 



 
    Of the $68.1 million of acquired intangible assets,    approximately $5.7 million was assigned to various trade    names and are being amortized over 30 months and    approximately $62.4 million was assigned to the
        F-16
Table of Contents

    Acquired Businesses' customer base, which has an estimated    useful life of 3 years. As discussed in Note 2, the    Goodwill resulting from the acquisition of the Acquired    Businesses was deemed to be fully impaired during the fourth    quarter of 2004, and, accordingly, was written off through a    non-cash impairment charge.
 
    The results of operations for the Acquired Businesses are    included in the accompanying consolidated financial statements    from the Closing Date through December 31, 2005. The    following is unaudited actual and pro forma financial    information of the Company assuming the Allegiance acquisition    had occurred at the beginning of the periods presented (dollars    in thousands, except share and per share data):
 
     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	
 
 
    Year Ended    


 
 
    Year Ended    


 

 
 
    December 31, 2004


 
 
    December 31, 2003


 

 

    Revenue    


 
 
    1,529,753
 
 
 
    1,630,042
 

    Net loss applicable to common    shares    


 
 
    (471,690
    )
 
 
    (336,580
    )

    Net loss per common    share  —  basic and diluted    


 
 
    (2.60
    )
 
 
    (2.39
    )

    Weighted average    shares  —  basic and diluted    


 
 
    181,457,087
 
 
 
    141,012,858
 



 
    
    

        5.  


        MARKETABLE    SECURITIES AND OTHER INVESTMENTS




 
    The amortized cost, gross unrealized gains and losses and fair    value of the equity securities    available-for-sale
    as of December 31, 2005 and December 31, 2004, are in    the following table. Other investments as of December 31,    2005 and December 31, 2004 consist of investments in the    debt of McLeodUSA, Inc (“McLeod”). (dollars in    thousands):
 
     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    Gross    


 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    Gross    


 
 
    Unrealized    


 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    Unrealized    


 
 
    Holding    


 

 
 
    Fair Value


 
 
    Cost Basis


 
 
    Holding Gains


 
 
    Losses


 

 

    As of December 31,    2005



 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

    Equity securities    


 
    $
    2,360
 
 
    $
    1,540
 
 
    $
    820
 
 
    $
    —
 

    Other securities    


 
 
    4,790
 
 
 
    4,790
 
 
 
    —
 
 
 
    —
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

    Total marketable securities    


 
    $
    7,150
 
 
    $
    6,330
 
 
    $
    820
 
 
    $
    —
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

    As of December 31,    2004



 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

    Equity securities    


 
    $
    6,417
 
 
    $
    1,705
 
 
    $
    4,712
 
 
    $
    —
 

    Debt securities    


 
 
    10,883
 
 
 
    10,883
 
 
 
    —
 
 
 
    —
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

    Total marketable securities    


 
    $
    17,300
 
 
    $
    12,588
 
 
    $
    4,712
 
 
    $
    —
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 



 
    The fair value of McLeod's debt instruments declined    significantly in 2005. The Company has deemed this decline as    other than temporary; accordingly, a $5.8 million    investment loss was recognized in the accompanying statements of    operations for the year ended December 31, 2005,    $1.1 million of which was recorded in the fourth quarter of    2005.
        F-17
Table of Contents

    
    

        6.  


        PROPERTY    AND EQUIPMENT




 
    Property and equipment consisted of the following components    (dollars in thousands):
 
     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	
 
 
    December 31,    


 
 
    December 31,    


 

 
 
    2005


 
 
    2004


 

 

    Telecommunications networks and    acquired bandwidth    


 
    $
    751,487
 
 
    $
    675,844
 

    Furniture, fixtures, equipment,    and other    


 
 
    258,034
 
 
 
    236,788
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
    1,009,521
 
 
 
    912,632
 

    Less accumulated depreciation    


 
 
    (387,334
    )
 
 
    (208,032
    )

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
    622,187
 
 
 
    704,600
 

    Construction-in-progress
    and undeployed assets    


 
 
    95,440
 
 
 
    115,936
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
    $
    717,627
 
 
    $
    820,536
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 



 
    During 2005, 2004 and 2003, depreciation expense was    $185.6 million, $140.1 million, and    $83.1 million, respectively. During 2005, 2004 and 2003 the    Company capitalized interest on construction costs of    $4.0 million, $4.0 million, and $3.0 million,    respectively. Assets classified as    construction-in-progress
    and undeployed assets consist of spare parts inventory, unlit    fiber on our long-haul network, and internally developed    software, and are not yet being depreciated as they are not    currently ready for their intended use and/or have not yet been    placed into service. The Company expects to reduce the amounts    included in construction-in-progress and undeployed assets    during 2006 as it begins to light the intercity network.
 
    
    

        7.  


        BROADBAND    WIRELESS LICENSES




 
    Broadband wireless licenses and other intangible assets    consisted of the following (dollars in thousands):
 
     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	
 
 
    December 31,    


 
 
    December 31,    


 

 
 
    2005


 
 
    2004


 

 

    Broadband wireless licenses    


 
    $
    59,508
 
 
    $
    59,508
 

    Less accumulated amortization    


 
 
    (18,981
    )
 
 
    (12,654
    )

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
    $
    40,527
 
 
    $
    46,854
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 



 
    Amortization expense related to Broadband Wireless Licenses was    $6.3 million for each of the years ended December 31,    2005, 2004 and 2003. As of December 31, 2005, approximately    $23.5 million of broadband wireless licenses are not being    amortized as commercial services have not been deployed in the    license's geographic area. Estimated amortization expense    for the next five years is $6.3 million, $6.3 million,    $4.2 million, $0.1 million and $0.1 million,    respectively.
 
    As of December 31, 2005, we had approximately    $23.5 million of broadband wireless licenses that have not    yet been placed into service and, accordingly, are not currently    being amortized. We expect to reduce the broadband wireless    licenses not currently in service during 2006 as we expand the    Wireless Business.
        F-18
Table of Contents

    
    

        8.  


        OTHER    INTANGIBLES




 
    Other intangible assets consisted of the following (dollars in    thousands):
 
     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	
 
 
    December 31,    


 
 
    December 31,    


 

 
 
    2005


 
 
    2004


 

 

    Customer relationships    


 
    $
    112,366
 
 
    $
    112,366
 

    Internally developed technology    


 
 
    9,521
 
 
 
    9,521
 

    Acquired tradenames    


 
 
    5,673
 
 
 
    5,673
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
    127,560
 
 
 
    127,560
 

    Less accumulated amortization    


 
 
    (94,041
    )
 
 
    (51,210
    )

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
    33,519
 
 
 
    76,350
 

    Goodwill  —  indefinite    life asset    


 
 
    1,071
 
 
 
    —
 

    XO Trade    name  —  indefinite life asset    


 
 
    16,662
 
 
 
    16,662
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
    $
    51,252
 
 
    $
    93,012
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 



 
    Amortization expense related to Other Intangibles for the years    ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003 was    $42.9 million, $31.4 million and $19.9 million,    respectively. Estimated amortization expense related to Other    Intangible Assets for the next two years is $23.5 million    and $10.0 million, respectively at which time the    Company's finite lived intangible assets will be fully    amortized. Customer relationship assets and internally developed    technology assets are amortized using the straight-line method    over the estimated useful lives of three years.
 
    The “XO” trade name was determined to have indefinite    life and is not being amortized, but is reviewed at least    annually for impairment in accordance with    SFAS No. 142. Other trade names are amortized over    their estimated useful lives of 30 months.
 
    The Company retained independent appraisers to perform a    valuation of its assets and liabilities as of December 31,    2004. This valuation was necessary as XO's fair value as    determined by its stock price, was less than its book value.    Based on this valuation, XO recorded a $212.5 million    non-cash impairment charge on its goodwill.
 
    
    

        9.  


        OTHER    ASSETS




 
    Other assets consisted of the following (dollars in thousands):
 
     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	
 
 
    December 31,    


 
 
    December 31,    


 

 
 
    2005


 
 
    2004


 

 

    ATLT Debt Claim    


 
    $
    20,553
 
 
    $
    26,053
 

    Security deposits    


 
 
    9,116
 
 
 
    11,665
 

    Pledged securities    


 
 
    6,426
 
 
 
    6,665
 

    Other long term assets    


 
 
    1,566
 
 
 
    2,346
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
    $
    37,661
 
 
    $
    46,729
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 



 
    The Company acquired $92.5 million in face value of    unsecured Allegiance debt securities for $36.4 million in    2004. Consequently, the Company is a claimant in    Allegiance's bankruptcy. The ATLT will eventually settle    all outstanding claims against the Allegiance estate with cash    or the Company's common stock that was distributed to it on    the Closing Date. Based on our best estimate of the    Company's share of the net assets of the ATLT, impairment    adjustments, of $5.5 million and $10.4 million were    recorded during the years ended December 31, 2005 and 2004,    respectively, as the declines in fair value were considered to    be other than temporary.
 
    It is difficult to assess how much of the claim the Company will    recover, or when the recovery will be paid. This assessment    could change based upon the total amount of claims the ATLT is    directed to pay, the
        F-19
Table of Contents

    amount of administrative costs that it incurs, and the value of    its assets, including 45.4 million shares of the    Company's stock.
 
    
    

        10.  


        ACCRUED    LIABILITIES




 
    Accrued liabilities consisted of the following components    (dollars in thousands):
 
     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	
 
 
    December 31,    


 
 
    December 31,    


 

 
 
    2005


 
 
    2004


 

 

    Accrued compensation    


 
    $
    48,608
 
 
    $
    54,405
 

    Deferred revenue    


 
 
    45,145
 
 
 
    53,556
 

    Accrued operating taxes    


 
 
    46,485
 
 
 
    50,277
 

    Accrued operating expenses    


 
 
    35,679
 
 
 
    31,937
 

    Accrued telecommunications costs    


 
 
    24,379
 
 
 
    24,881
 

    Accrued restructuring charges and    asset retirement obligations    


 
 
    12,404
 
 
 
    13,776
 

    Other accrued liabilities    


 
 
    3,578
 
 
 
    12,700
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
    $
    216,278
 
 
    $
    241,532
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 



 
    
    

        11.  


        ACCOUNTING    FOR ASSET RETIREMENT OBLIGATIONS




 
    The Company has various agreements in which it leases conduit    space and pole attachment rights from governmental entities,    public utilities, and other telecommunications service providers    for its fiber. Additionally, the Company has its    telecommunications and data center equipment in various leased    technical facilities. In many cases, the Company has contractual    obligations to remove the assets associated with these lease    agreements upon termination of the agreements. Accordingly, the    Company has recorded a liability and asset for the present value    of the estimated future capital expenditures associated with the    related asset retirement obligations. The following table is a    reconciliation of the beginning and ending asset retirement    obligations (dollars in thousands):
 
     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	
    Balance as of January 1, 2004    


 
    $
    12,855
 

    Accretion    


 
 
    776
 

    Usage    


 
 
    -
 

    Revisions    


 
 
    (7,738
    )

 
 
 
 
 

    Balance as of December 31,    2004    


 
    $
    5,893
 

 
 
 
 
 

    Balance as of January 1, 2005    


 
    $
    5,893
 

    Accretion    


 
 
    405
 

    Usage    


 
 
    (671
    )

    Revisions    


 
 
    (631
    )

 
 
 
 
 

    Balance as of December 31,    2005    


 
    $
    4,996
 

 
 
 
 
 



 
    The asset retirement obligations and associated asset are    estimated based on several assumptions. If information becomes    known that is different than the assumptions in use, revisions    are made using the more precise information. If actual results    differ from the assumptions used, the amount of the obligations    will differ, perhaps significantly, from the amounts reflected    in the accompanying consolidated financial statements.
 
    
    

        12.  


        LONG-TERM    DEBT




 
    The Company has a secured credit facility (the “Credit    Facility”) which matures on July 15, 2009. There are    no additional borrowings available under the Credit Facility. At    December 31, 2005, more than 90% of the underlying loans of    the Credit Facility are held by an entity controlled by    Mr. Icahn, Chairman of the Company's Board of    Directors (“Mr. Icahn”). At December 31,    2005, long-term debt consisted of
        F-20
Table of Contents

    $300.8 million in principal and $0.3 million of    accrued interest that, if not paid, converts to principal. There    are no current debt service requirements since cash interest    payments as well as automatic and permanent quarterly reductions    on the principal amount outstanding do not commence until 2009.    However, in the event that consolidated excess cash flow (as    defined in the Credit Facility) for any fiscal quarter during    the term of the agreement is greater than $25.0 million, at    the request of the lender, the Company will pay an amount equal    to 50% of such excess cash flow greater than $25.0 million    toward the reduction of outstanding indebtedness. In addition,    if the ratio of XO's consolidated earnings before interest,    taxes, depreciation and amortization (“EBITDA”) to    consolidated interest expense for four consecutive quarters    exceeds 4:1, XO would be required to pay cash interest, unless    waived by the lenders. The Company can elect to begin paying    interest in cash prior to the required date. Loans under the    Credit Facility bear interest, at the Company's option, at    an alternate base rate, as defined, or a Eurodollar rate plus,    in each case, applicable margins. Once the Company begins to pay    accrued interest in cash, the applicable margins are reduced. At    December 31, 2005, the annualized weighted average interest    rate applicable to outstanding borrowings under the Credit    Facility was 9.41%.
 
    The Company's Credit Facility includes a financial covenant    (the “EBITDA Covenant”) requiring it to maintain    minimum earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, and    amortization (“EBITDA”), for the twelve-month period    ending each fiscal quarter. Additionally, the Credit Facility    limits additional indebtedness, liens, dividend payments,    certain investments and transactions, and maximum capital    expenditures. The Company was not in Compliance with the EBITDA    Covenant in 2005 and based on current financial results and its    current business plan, it does not expect to comply with the    EBITDA Covenant in 2006. The Company has obtained a waiver of    the EBITDA Covenant (the “Waiver”)through    December 31, 2006, but it can not be certain that it will    be able to obtain any further waivers of this, or any other,    covenant in the Credit Facility.
 
    We completed a prepayment of the outstanding indebtedness under    the Credit Facility of $100 million during the fourth    quarter of 2005. As part of the Wireline Sale, we have agreed to    prepay all but $75 million of the outstanding indebtedness    under the Credit Facility, and the Buyer has agreed to assume    that indebtedness as of the closing of the Wireline Sale. The    lenders under the Credit Facility have agreed to release us from    any further obligations under the Credit Facility upon our    making such prepayment.
 
    If the Company is not able to (i) amend the Credit Facility    covenant to remove the EBITDA Covenant or decrease the    requirement to a level it believes it can achieve,    (ii) obtain an extension on the waiver to at least    March 31, 2007, (iii) repay the Credit Facility with a    new debt or equity offering so that it is in compliance, or    (iv) complete the Wireline Sale and obtain the a release    from the lenders from all Credit Facility obligations, under the    current accounting guidelines it will be required to reclassify    all of the amounts due under the Credit Facility to short term    debt as of March 31, 2006. While the existing waivers    prevent the lenders under the Credit Facility from accelerating    repayment of the outstanding indebtedness under the Credit    Facility until March 31, 2007, this reclassification would    cause a significant deterioration to the Company's    disclosed working capital and financial position. The security    for the Credit Facility consists of substantially all of our    wireline and wireless assets. A default under the Credit    Facility could adversely affect our rights under other    commercial agreements.
 
    
    

        13.  


        CONVERTIBLE    PREFERRED STOCK




 
    On August 6, 2004, the Company completed a private    placement of 4.0 million shares of its 6% Class A    Convertible Preferred Stock (the “Preferred Stock    Offering”) for net proceeds of $199.4 million.    Affiliates of Mr. Icahn purchased 95% of the preferred    shares sold in the Preferred Stock Offering, and an affiliate of    Amalgamated Gadget, L.P., holder of approximately 8% of the    Company's outstanding common stock, purchased the remaining    five percent. As of December 31, 2005, the liquidation and    redemption value of the 6% Class A Convertible Preferred    Stock was $217.1 million.
 
    The Preferred Stock Offering was reviewed and approved by a    special committee of XO's Board of Directors consisting of    the Company's three independent directors,    Messrs. Dell, Gradin and Knauss. The special committee    selected its own counsel and financial advisor. The financial    advisor advised the special committee that, subject to specified    qualifications, assumptions and limitations, the material terms    of the 6%
        F-21
Table of Contents

    Class A Convertible Preferred Stock were fair to the    Company, from a financial point of view, at the time of issuance.
 
    The Class A Preferred Stock ranks senior to the    Company's common stock. Holders of the Class A    Preferred Stock are not entitled to receive annual dividends,    however, the liquidation preference of the Class A    Preferred Stock automatically increases at a rate of 1.5% each    quarter through the maturity date, January 15, 2010. The    Company is required to redeem the then-outstanding shares of    Class A Preferred Stock on the maturity date at 100% of    their aggregate liquidation preference, including compounded    accretion through that date, unless earlier redeemed or    converted into common stock. If all of the shares of    Class A Preferred Stock were to remain outstanding on the    maturity date, and assuming the accretion of all the required    increases to the liquidation preference thereof, holders of the    Class A Preferred Stock would be entitled to    59,876,853 shares of common stock and would have an    aggregate liquidation preference of approximately    $276.6 million. The shares of Class A Preferred Stock    are convertible into common stock based on a share price of    $4.62, a premium of approximately 20% above the trading price of    the common stock on the closing date of the Preferred Stock    Offering. The Company may also, at its sole option, redeem the    Class A Preferred Stock at any time after the third    anniversary of the issue date of such shares if the average    market price of the Company's common stock for the    20 days prior to such redemption is equal to or greater    than 250% of the conversion price of the Class A Preferred    Stock. Each holder of the Class A Preferred Stock is    entitled to one vote for each share of common stock issuable    upon the conversion of the shares of Class A Preferred    Stock as of the record date for such stockholders vote. Both the    conversion ratio and the voting power of each share of    Class A Preferred Stock will be automatically increased    each quarter as the liquidation preference increases at the rate    of 1.5% each quarter. The holders of Class A Preferred    Stock also have anti-dilution protection in the event that the    Company issues shares of common stock at a price below the    then-prevailing market price of the Company's common stock.
 
    In connection with the Waiver, the Company agreed that in the    event of a sale of the entire company or in the event of other    significant sale or divestiture transactions, it will offer to    repurchase outstanding shares of its preferred stock at their    liquidation value accrued through the date of redemption for    cash or, in certain events, securities. The affiliate of    Mr. Icahn which holds 95% of such Preferred Stock agreed to    accept that offer, to the extent it consists of cash.
 
    As discussed in Note 1, on November 4, 2005, the    Company and Seller entered into the Equity Purchase Agreement    that provides for the Wireline Sale. A portion of the proceeds    from the Wireline Sale will be used to offer to redeem, at the    closing of the Wireline Sale, the Company's outstanding    preferred stock.
 
    
    

        14.  


        STOCKHOLDERS'    EQUITY




 
    The Company initiated a rights offering (the “Rights    Offering”) during the fourth quarter of 2003 offering    40.0 million shares of its common stock at a price of    $5.00 per share. The Rights Offering closed on    January 5, 2004. An aggregate of 39.7 million shares    were issued, yielding net proceeds of $197.6 million.
 
    XOC has warrants outstanding to purchase up to an additional    23.75 million shares of its common stock. The warrants    consist of:
 
    
    
    

     
        • 
        Series A Warrants to purchase 9.5 million shares of    the Company's common stock at an exercise price of    $6.25 per share;

 

     
        • 
        Series B Warrants to purchase approximately    7.1 million shares of the Company's common stock at an    exercise price of $7.50 per share; and

 

     
        • 
        Series C Warrants to purchase approximately    7.1 million shares of the Company's common stock at an    exercise price of $10.00 per share.


 
    The warrants were valued at issuance at approximately    $44.9 million using the Black Scholes pricing model and are    included in the Company's common stock in the accompanying    consolidated balance sheet. The warrants will expire    7 years after the date of issuance. The exercise price    applicable to each respective series of warrants is subject to    adjustment in certain events.
        F-22
Table of Contents

    In addition to the outstanding warrants discussed above, the    Company has a stock option plan that can further dilute    investors if exercised. This stock option plan is discussed    further in Note 16. See Note 19 for related party    disclosure on the Company's stockholder's equity.
 
    
    

        15.  


        INCOME    TAXES




 
    As of December 31, 2005, the Company had net operating loss    carryforwards of approximately $2.58 billion, of which    $1.08 billion related to the acquisition of the Acquired    Business. The acquired net operating loss carryforwards expire    between 2019 and 2023. The remainder of the Company's net    operating loss carryforwards expire between 2022 and 2025. Use    of the Acquired Business net operation loss carryforward is    significantly limited due to limitations imposed under the    ownership change rules in the U.S. Internal Revenue Code.    The utilization of the expected tax benefit from property and    equipment depreciation could also be impacted by the ownership    change rules of the U.S. Internal Revenue Code.
 
    The Company was a member of an affiliated group of corporations,    controlled by Mr. Icahn, filing a consolidated federal    income tax return from January 2003 through January 2004, when    Mr. Icahn's ownership percentage fell below the amount    required by the Internal Revenue Code for the filing of    consolidated returns. As such, in January 2004, the Company    deconsolidated from Starfire Holding Corporation    (“Starfire”), the Parent entity of the affiliated    group of corporations controlled by Mr. Icahn. The Company    had entered into a Tax Allocation Agreement with Starfire in    January 2003 which provides that while the Company files on a    consolidated basis with Starfire, Starfire will pay all    consolidated federal income taxes on behalf of the affiliated    group that includes the Company, and the Company will make    payments to Starfire in an amount equal to the tax liability, if    any, that the Company would have had if it were to file as a    group separate and apart from the Starfire affiliated group.    Upon deconsolidation, the Tax Allocation Agreement generally    provides that Starfire will reimburse the Company each year    going forward for the excess of the Company's actual income    taxes over the income taxes that the Company would have owed if    net operating losses or other tax attributes used in prior    periods by the Starfire affiliated group were still available to    the Company. The Company's net operating loss carryforward    has been reduced by the amount used by Starfire in 2003 and    2004. No amount has been recorded for potential reimbursements    from Starfire under the Tax Allocation Agreement.
 
    The provisions of SFAS No. 109 have been applied as if    the Company were a separate taxpayer prior to deconsolidation.    As reflected in the following table, the Company established a    valuation allowance against its deferred tax assets of    $1,870 million and $2,021 million as of    December 31, 2005 and 2004, respectively. Primarily, the    net decrease in the valuation allowance of $151 million    from 2004 to 2005 was due to the utilization of net operating    losses by Starfire and the expiration of capital loss    carryforwards. The valuation allowance increased    $480.5 million during the year ended December 31,    2004, and decreased $487.7 million
        F-23
Table of Contents

    during the year ended December 31, 2003. Valuation    allowances are used to reduce deferred tax assets to the amounts    considered likely to be realized.
 
    Components of deferred tax assets and liabilities were as    follows (dollars in thousands):
 
     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	
 
 
    December 31,


 

 
 
    2005


 
 
    2004


 

 

    Deferred tax assets:    


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

    Provisions not currently deductible    


 
    $
    118,988
 
 
    $
    108,959
 

    Property, equipment and other    long-term assets (net)    


 
 
    692,772
 
 
 
    820,885
 

    Net operating loss and capital    loss carryforwards    


 
 
    1,058,208
 
 
 
    1,109,575
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

    Total deferred tax assets    


 
 
    1,869,968
 
 
 
    2,039,419
 

    Valuation allowance    


 
 
    (1,869,968
    )
 
 
    (2,021,103
    )

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

    Net deferred tax assets    


 
 
    —
 
 
 
    18,316
 

    Deferred tax liabilities:    


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

    Other identifiable intangibles    


 
 
    (6,831
    )
 
 
    (25,147
    )

    Total deferred tax liabilities    


 
 
    (6,831
    )
 
 
    (25,147
    )

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

    Net deferred tax liability    


 
    $
    (6,831
    )
 
    $
    (6,831
    )

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 



 
    Reconciliation of the U.S. federal and state tax rate to    the Company's effective income tax rate:
 
     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	
 
 
    2005


 
 
    2004


 
 
    2003


 

 

    Statutory U.S. federal rate    


 
 
    35.0
    %
 
 
    35.0
    %
 
 
    35.0
    %

    State income taxes, net of federal    benefit    


 
 
    6.0
    %
 
 
    6.0
    %
 
 
    6.0
    %

    Valuation allowance for deferred    tax assets    


 
 
    (41.0
    )%
 
 
    (22.6
    )%
 
 
    (41.0
    )%

    Impairment    


 
 
    —
    %
 
 
    (18.4
    )%
 
 
    —
    %

    Effective income tax rate    


 
 
    —
    %
 
 
    —
    %
 
 
    —
    %



 
    As a result of the Wireline Sale, the tax attributes of the    Wireline Business will remain with that business following the    Closing, including its net operating loss carryforwards.
 
    
    

        16.  


        STOCK    COMPENSATION ARRANGEMENTS




 
    The XO Communications, Inc. 2002 Stock Incentive Plan (“the    2002 Stock Incentive Plan”) was adopted in January 2003.    Under the 2002 Stock Incentive Plan, the Company is authorized    to issue awards for up to 17.6 million shares of its common    stock in the form of restricted stock or options to purchase    stock. The 2002 Stock Incentive Plan is administered by the    Compensation Committee of the Company's Board of Directors,    which has the discretionary authority to determine all matters    relating to awards of stock options and restricted stock,    including the selection of eligible participants, the number of    shares of common stock to be subject to each option or    restricted stock award, the exercise price of each option,    vesting, and all other terms and conditions of awards. Unless    the Compensation Committee designates otherwise, all options    expire on the earlier of (i) ten years after the date of    grant, (ii) twelve months after termination of employment    with the Company due to death or complete and permanent    disability, (iii) immediately upon termination of    employment by the Company for cause, or (iv) three months    after termination of employment by the employee or by the    Company for other than cause.
 
    In June 2003, the Company filed a registration statement    covering the offer and sale of stock options and stock    appreciation rights (“SARs”) to be granted in    conjunction with the 2003 Employee Retention and Incentive Plan    (the “Retention Plan”) for an aggregate award of    1.9 million shares of its common stock (the “Retention    Plan Awards”). The financial goals and the terms of the    Retention Plan were established by the Company's Board of    Directors. The per share exercise price for the Retention Plan    Awards was set at $5.84. Resulting compensation was recorded as    deferred compensation and amortized to on a straight line basis    expense based on the associated vesting period.
        F-24
Table of Contents

    The following two tables summarize information regarding option    activity under the 2002 Stock Option Plan for the years ended    December 31, 2005 and 2004:
 
     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	
 
 
    Number of    


 
 
    Weighted Average    



 
 
    Shares


 
 
    Exercise Price



 

    Outstanding at January 1, 2003    


 
 
    —
 
 

    —    



    Granted    


 
 
    15,394,162
 
 

    $5.09    



    Cancelled    


 
 
    (3,697,068
    )
 

    $5.02    



    Exercised    


 
 
    (1,274,139
    )
 

    $5.01    



 
 
 
 
 
 

 


    Outstanding at December 31,    2003    


 
 
    10,422,955
 
 

    $5.12    



 
 
 
 
 
 

 


    Exercisable at December 31,    2003    


 
 
    2,424,903
 
 

    $5.10    



 
 
 
 
 
 

 


    Outstanding at January 1, 2004    


 
 
    10,422,955
 
 

    $5.12    



    Granted    


 
 
    3,577,382
 
 

    5.26    



    Canceled    


 
 
    (2,184,093
    )
 

    5.55    



    Exercised    


 
 
    (556,429
    )
 

    5.01    



 
 
 
 
 
 

 


    Outstanding at December 31,    2004    


 
 
    11,259,815
 
 

    5.09    



 
 
 
 
 
 

 


    Exercisable at December 31,    2004    


 
 
    3,726,298
 
 

    5.02    



 
 
 
 
 
 

 


    Outstanding at December 31,    2004    


 
 
    11,259,815
 
 

    5.09    



    Granted    


 
 
    436,000
 
 

    5.00    



    Canceled    


 
 
    (2,399,358
    )
 

    5.25    



    Exercised    


 
 
    —
 
 

    —    



 
 
 
 
 
 

 


    Outstanding at December 31,    2005    


 
 
    9,296,457
 
 

    5.06    



 
 
 
 
 
 

 


    Exercisable at December 31,    2005    


 
 
    5,332,787
 
 

    5.03    



 
 
 
 
 
 

 




 
     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	
 
 
 
 
 
    Options Outstanding


 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    Weighted    


 
 
 
 
 
    Options Exercisable


 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    Average    


 
 
    Weighted    


 
 
 
 
 
    Weighted    


 

 
 
 
 
 
    Options    


 
 
    Remaining    


 
 
    Average    


 
 
    Options    


 
 
    Average    


 

 
 
    Range of Exercise    


 
 
    Outstanding    


 
 
    Contractual    


 
 
    Exercise    


 
 
    Exercisable    


 
 
    Exercise    


 

 
 
    Prices


 
 
    at December 31,


 
 
    Life


 
 
    Price


 
 
    at December 31,


 
 
    Price


 

 

    2003    


 
    $
    4.80 — $7.05
 
 
 
    10,422,955
 
 
 
    9.1
 
 
    $
    5.12
 
 
 
    2,424,903
 
 
    $
    5.10
 

    2004    


 
    $
    4.80 — $7.05
 
 
 
    11,259,815
 
 
 
    8.6
 
 
    $
    5.09
 
 
 
    3,726,298
 
 
    $
    5.02
 

    2005    


 
    $
    4.80 — $7.05
 
 
 
    9,296,457
 
 
 
    7.6
 
 
    $
    5.06
 
 
 
    5,332,787
 
 
    $
    5.03
 



 
    
    

        17.  


        SUPPLEMENTAL    DISCLOSURE




 
    Cash    flows


 
    Supplemental disclosure of the Company's cash flow    information is as follows (dollars in thousands):
 
     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	
 
 
    Year Ended    December 31,


 

 
 
    2005


 
 
    2004


 
 
    2003


 

 

    Non-cash financing and investing    activities were as follows:    


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

    Stock issued for acquired    businesses    


 
    $
    —
 
 
    $
    311,306
 
 
    $
    —
 

    Assets and obligations acquired    through capital leases    


 
 
    —
 
 
 
    3,932
 
 
 
    —
 

    Conversion of accrued interest to    long-term debt    


 
 
    39,730
 
 
 
    28,746
 
 
 
    29,901
 

    Cash paid for interest    


 
    $
    4,104
 
 
    $
    2,481
 
 
    $
    2,315
 



        F-25
Table of Contents

    Employee    Savings and Retirement Plan


 
    At December 31, 2005, the Company had a defined    contribution plan, generally covering all full time employees in    the United States. The Company provides a match to all eligible    employees based on certain plan provisions and the discretion of    the Board of Directors. The Company makes a 50% matching    contribution up to 5% of the participant's compensation.    Company contributions net of forfeitures were $4.0 million,    $2.3 million and $4.8 million during 2005, 2004 and    2003, respectively.
 
    
    

        18.  


        SELECTED    QUARTERLY DATA (Unaudited)




 
    Quarterly financial information is summarized in the table below    (dollars in thousands, except per share data):
 
     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	
 
 
    Quarter ended 2005(a)


 

 
 
    March 31,


 
 
    June 30,


 
 
    September 30,


 
 
    December 31,


 

 

    Revenue    


 
    $
    361,504
 
 
    $
    362,164
 
 
    $
    358,672
 
 
    $
    351,282
 

    Cost of service    


 
 
    147,922
 
 
 
    138,024
 
 
 
    147,009
 
 
 
    154,949
 

    Loss from operations(b)    


 
 
    (36,477
    )
 
 
    (24,729
    )
 
 
    (23,318
    )
 
 
    (41,870
    )

    Net loss(b)    


 
 
    (42,859
    )
 
 
    (29,507
    )
 
 
    (30,634
    )
 
 
    (43,505
    )

    Net loss applicable to common    shares(b)    


 
 
    (45,956
    )
 
 
    (32,652
    )
 
 
    (33,855
    )
 
 
    (46,745
    )

    Net loss per common share (basic    and diluted)    


 
 
    (0.25
    )
 
 
    (0.18
    )
 
 
    (0.19
    )
 
 
    (0.26
    )



 
     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	
 
 
    Quarter ended 2004 (a)


 

 
 
    March 31,


 
 
    June 30,


 
 
    September 30,


 
 
    December 31,


 

 

    Revenue    


 
    $
    260,945
 
 
    $
    278,183
 
 
    $
    391,885
 
 
    $
    369,407
 

    Cost of service    


 
 
    109,961
 
 
 
    118,822
 
 
 
    161,946
 
 
 
    162,006
 

    Loss from operations(c)    


 
 
    (43,266
    )
 
 
    (34,853
    )
 
 
    (36,227
    )
 
 
    (255,946
    )

    Net loss(c)    


 
 
    (48,494
    )
 
 
    (43,820
    )
 
 
    (41,779
    )
 
 
    (271,450
    )

    Net loss applicable to common    shares(c)    


 
 
    (48,494
    )
 
 
    (43,820
    )
 
 
    (43,619
    )
 
 
    (274,520
    )

    Net loss per common share (basic    and diluted)    


 
 
    (0.37
    )
 
 
    (0.31
    )
 
 
    (0.24
    )
 
 
    (1.51
    )



 

 
    
    
    

        (a) 
    
        The results include the results of the Acquired Businesses from    June  23, 2004 through December 31, 2005.

 

        (b) 
    
        Second quarter of 2005 includes lease and depreciation    adjustments described in Note 2.

 

        (c) 
    
        Fourth quarter of 2004 includes a $212.5 million non-cash    goodwill impairment charge.


 
    
    

        19.  


        RELATED    PARTY TRANSACTIONS




 
    Various entities controlled by Mr. Icahn hold the following    interests in XO Holdings:
 
     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	
 
 
    Outstanding    


 
 
    Series A, B and C    


 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
    Common Stock


 
 
    Warrants


 
 
    Credit Facility


 
 
    Preferred Stock


 

 

    At December 31, 2004    


 
 
    Greater than 50
    %
 
 
    Greater than 40
    %
 
 
    Greater than 90
    %
 
 
    95
    %

    At December 31, 2005    


 
 
    Greater than 50
    %
 
 
    Greater than 40
    %
 
 
    Greater than 90
    %
 
 
    95
    %



 
    As a result of his majority ownership, Mr. Icahn can elect    all of the Company's directors, appoint the members of the    committees of the Board of Directors, appoint key members of the    executive management team, and appoint the Company's    auditors. Currently, Mr. Icahn is Chairman of the Board of    Directors and three employees of Icahn Associates are members on    the Board of Directors and various Committees of the Board of    Directors. Under applicable law and XO Holdings'    Certificate of Incorporation and by-laws, certain actions cannot    be taken without the approval of holders of a majority of the    Company's voting stock,
        F-26
Table of Contents

    including, without limitation, mergers, acquisitions, the sale    of substantially all the Company's assets, and amendments    to the Company's Certificate of Incorporation and by-laws.
 
    Mr. Icahn, through various entities that he owns or    controls, has the right to require XO Holdings to register,    under the Securities Act of 1933, shares of XO Holdings'    Common Stock held by such entities and to include shares of XO    Holdings' common stock held by them in certain registration    statements filed by XO Holdings.
 
    The Company provides certain telecommunications services to    companies affiliated with Mr. Icahn. The total revenue    recognized on such services for the years ended    December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003 was $3.3 million,    $2.0 million, and $0.4 million, respectively. During    the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003, the    Company purchased approximately $1.0 million,    $0.6 million and $0.3 million, respectively, in    services from companies affiliated with Mr. Icahn.
 
    During the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003,    the Company purchased approximately $1.1 million,    $1.0 million and $1.1 million, respectively, in hardware    and services from Dell Computers, Inc. Mr. Adam Dell, an XO    Holdings director, is the brother of Mr. Michael Dell, the    Chairman of Dell Computers, Inc.
 
    On November 4, 2005, XO Holdings and XOC entered into the    Equity Purchase Agreement that provides for the Wireline Sale of    the Company's national wireline telecommunications business    through the sale of all of the outstanding LLC interests in XO    LLC for an aggregate purchase price of $700 million    consisting of $625 million in cash and the assumption of    $75 million of indebtedness.
 
    As part of the Wireline Sale, XO Holdings and Buyer have agreed    that certain Tax Allocation Agreement, dated as of    January 16, 2003, by and between XOC and Starfire Holding    Corporation, beneficial holder of approximately 62% of the    Company's common stock and an affiliate of our Chairman and    controlling stockholder, Mr. Icahn, will be terminated as a    condition to the closing of the Wireline Sale. In addition, as a    result of the Wireline Sale, the tax attributes of the Wireline    Business will remain with that business following the Closing,    including its net operating loss carryforwards.
 
    In connection with the execution of the Equity Purchase    Agreement and in order to induce XO Holdings and XOC to enter    into the Equity Purchase Agreement, Cardiff, who beneficially    owns approximately 62% of the Company's Common Stock,    entered into the Stockholder Agreement, pursuant to which    Cardiff has agreed, among other things, to vote its shares in    certain events in accordance with the recommendation of the    Special Committee. The Buyer's obligations of payment and    performance pursuant to the Equity Purchase Agreement are    guaranteed pursuant to a guaranty, dated as of November 4,    2005, with Thornwood Associates Limited Partnership, an    affiliate of Mr. Icahn.
 
    On March 1, 2006, XO Holdings, XO LLC (as successor by    merger to XOC), and Buyer agreed to amend the Equity Purchase    Agreement to clarify that $75 million of the purchase price    contemplated by the Equity Purchase Agreement would be    structured as the assumption of XO Holdings' indebtedness,    and to further delineate certain excluded assets that would not    be conveyed by XO Holdings to Buyer as part of the Wireline Sale.
 
    On March 1, 2006, XO LLC (as successor by merger to XOC),    certain subsidiaries of XO LLC, as guarantors, the Company, as    guarantor, LMDS Co., Inc., a Delaware corporation and a    wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company, as guarantor, V&K    Holdings, Inc. (“V&K”), a Delaware corporation and    a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company, as guarantor, the    Requisite Lenders (as defined in the Credit Facility), on behalf    of all of the Lenders, and the Administrative Agent entered into    a Ratification and Amendment Agreement (the “Ratification    and Amendment Agreement”). Pursuant to the Ratification and    Amendment Agreement, among other things, (i) XO LLC has    agreed that, as successor by merger to XOC, it will remain a    party to the Credit Facility as the borrower thereunder, and    (ii) each of the Company, LMDS Co. and V&K have agreed    that, notwithstanding the fact that it is not a subsidiary of XO    LLC, it will serve as a guarantor of XO LLC's obligations    under the Credit Facility. The Ratification and Amendment    Agreement also provides for the release of each of the Company,    LMDS Co. and V&K from any and all of its obligations (as    guarantor or
        F-27
Table of Contents

    otherwise) under or with respect to the Credit Facility upon the    satisfaction of certain conditions contained therein to the    reasonable satisfaction of Requisite Lenders.
 
    
    

        20.  


        COMMITMENTS    AND CONTINGENCIES




 
    Operating    Commitments


 
    The Company is leasing premises under various noncancelable    operating leases for administrative space, building access, and    other leases, which, in addition to rental payments, require    payments for insurance, maintenance, property taxes and other    executory costs related to the leases. The lease agreements have    various expiration dates and renewal options through 2019. The    Company also has various noncancelable long-term contractual    obligations associated with maintenance and service agreements.
 
    Future minimum lease commitments required under noncancelable    operating leases and contractual obligations are as follows    (dollars in thousands):
 
     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	
 
 
    Operating    


 
 
    Other long-term    


 

 
 
    lease    


 
 
    contractual    


 

    Year Ending    December 31,



 
    obligations


 
 
    obligations


 

 

    2006    


 
    $
    69,932
 
 
    $
    82,800
 

    2007    


 
 
    64,965
 
 
 
    79,535
 

    2008    


 
 
    54,327
 
 
 
    68,513
 

    2009    


 
 
    46,432
 
 
 
    44,573
 

    2010    


 
 
    39,838
 
 
 
    15,688
 

    Thereafter    


 
 
    125,873
 
 
 
    87,322
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

    Total minimum commitments    


 
    $
    401,367
 
 
    $
    378,431
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 



 
    Rent expense for cancelable and noncancelable leases totaled    approximately $77.3 million, $57.4 million, and    $53.7 million for the years ended December 31, 2005,    2004, and 2003, respectively. The minimum lease payments noted    above have not been reduced for sublease income totaling    approximately $1.3 million for the year ended    December 31, 2005.
 
    Capital    Leases


 
    Network assets under capital leases totaled approximately    $8.3 million as of December 31, 2005 and 2004, and are    included in telecommunications networks in property and    equipment. Depreciation on leased assets was $1.2 million    and $0.4 million for the years ended December 31, 2005    and 2004, respectively is included in depreciation expense.    Future minimum lease payments under capital lease obligations as    of December 31, 2005 are as follows (dollars in thousands):
 
     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	
 
 
    Capital lease    


 

    Year Ending    December 31,



 
    obligations


 

 

    2006    


 
    $
    4,537
 

    2007    


 
 
    3,854
 

    2008    


 
 
    2,398
 

    2009    


 
 
    1,770
 

    2010    


 
 
    1,419
 

    Thereafter    


 
 
    12,491
 

 
 
 
 
 

    Total minimum capital lease    payments    


 
 
    26,469
 

    Less: imputed interest    


 
 
    9,008
 

    Less: current portion of capital    lease obligations    


 
 
    2,956
 

 
 
 
 
 

    Long-term portion of capital lease    obligation    


 
    $
    14,505
 

 
 
 
 
 



        F-28
Table of Contents

    In February 2006 the Company entered into an agreement to    purchase certain telecommunications equipment. The agreement    requires total payments of $10 million to be paid in 6    installments beginning in March 2006 and ending in April 2007.
 
    Legal    Proceedings


 
    The Company is involved in lawsuits, claims, investigations and    proceedings consisting of commercial, securities, tort, and    employment matters, which arise in the ordinary course of    business. In accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting    Standards 5, “Accounting for Contingencies,” the    Company makes a provision for a liability when it is both    probable that a liability has been incurred and the amount of    the loss can be reasonably estimated. The Company believes it    has adequate provisions for any such matters. The Company    reviews these provisions at least quarterly and adjusts these    provisions to reflect the impacts of negotiations, settlements,    rulings, advice of legal counsel, and other information and    events pertaining to a particular case. Litigation is inherently    unpredictable. However, the Company believes that it has valid    defenses with respect to legal matters pending against it.    Nevertheless, it is possible that cash flows or results of    operations could be materially and adversely affected in any    particular period by the unfavorable resolution or disposition    of one or more of these contingencies.
 
    Allegiance    Telecom Liquidating Trust Litigation


 
    In August 2004 XOC filed an administrative claim (the    “Administrative Claim”) against the ATLT, the    successor to the assets and liabilities of Allegiance that XOC    did not acquire. All of the rights, duties, obligations and    liabilities of XOC in connection with the Administrative Claim,    as well as any other matters pertaining to or arising from the    acquisition by XOC of Allegiance, were assumed by LMDS Co. and    assigned to LMDS Co. by XOC as part of the Restructuring,    pursuant to that certain Assignment and Assumption Agreement,    dated as of March 1, 2006. Under this assignment and    assumption, XO Holdings is entitled to exercise the rights    previously asserted by XOC in connection with this action.
 
    The Company has claimed that it is entitled to approximately    $50 million in damages related to a variety of actions    taken by Allegiance and the ATLT. The ATLT filed a counterclaim    against the Company in November 2004 seeking damages of    approximately $100 million. The case went to trial in the    United States Bankruptcy Court for the Southern District of New    York on May 2, 2005 and has not yet been decided. After the    trial, the ATLT reduced its counterclaim to approximately    $27.8 million. The Company has pursued its claims against    the ATLT, and has disputed the ATLT counterclaim as being    frivolous and without merit. There can be no assurance, however,    that the Company will be successful in recovering the damages to    which it believes it is entitled, or that it will successfully    defend itself against the ATLT counterclaim.
 
    As of December 31, 2005, the Company had $8.0 million    recorded in other current assets related to certain payments    made on behalf of the ATLT that it believes are reimbursable by    the ATLT and estimated likely to be settled prior to    December 31, 2006. Other than this amount, the accompanying    financial statements do not include any impact from the    Administrative Claim.
 
    Litigation    Relating to the Wireline Sale


 
    On December 23, 2005, R2 Investments, following its receipt    of documentation from the Company in connection with a    then-pending claim under Section 220 of the Delaware    General Corporation Law, filed a lawsuit filed in the Delaware    Court of Chancery challenging the Wireline Sale. The complaint    names as defendants the Company, the Company's directors    and certain affiliates of Mr. Icahn, including Cardiff and    the Buyer. The complaint, R2 Investments 
v. Carl C.    Icahn, et al.
  (C.A.    No. 1862-N),
    alleges, among other things, that (i) Mr. Icahn and    Cardiff breached fiduciary duties of care, good faith and    loyalty in connection with the Equity Purchase Agreement and the    Stockholder Voting Agreement, (ii) XOC and the director    defendants acted in concert and conspired with Mr. Icahn    and Cardiff and (iii) the director defendants violated    their fiduciary duties in connection with the Equity Purchase    Agreement by failing to obtain the greatest value for all    stockholders. The complaint seeks equitable relief, including,    among other things, an injunction against
        F-29
Table of Contents

    consummation of the Wireline Sale and rescission, to the extent    implemented, of the Equity Purchase Agreement, the Stockholder    Voting Agreement and the Wireline Sale.
 
    On January 9, 2006, the ATLT filed a complaint in the    Delaware Court of Chancery challenging the Wireline Sale. With    limited exceptions, the complaint, Allegiance Telecom    Liquidating Trust v. Carl C. Icahn,    et al.
  (C.A. No.    1877-N),
 is    substantially the same as R2 Investments' complaint.
 
    On January 11, 2006, Mr. Donald J.    Hillenmeyer, Jr., who alleges that he is one of the    Company's stockholders, filed a putative stockholder    derivative action on behalf of XO LLC in the Delaware Court of    Chancery challenging the Wireline Sale. The complaint, Donald    J. Hillenmeyer, Jr. v. XO Communications, Inc.,    et al.
  (C.A.    No. 1880-N),
    names as defendants XOC, its directors and certain affiliates of    Mr. Icahn, including Cardiff and Buyer, and alleges, among    other things, that (i) Mr. Icahn and Cardiff breached    alleged fiduciary duties of care, good faith and loyalty in    connection with the May 2005 waiver of defaults under the    existing credit facility granted by affiliates of Mr. Icahn, the    Equity Purchase Agreement and the Stockholder Voting Agreement,    (iii) the director defendants (excluding Mr. Icahn)    gave substantial assistance to Mr. Icahn in respect of such    waiver, the Equity Purchase Agreement and the Stockholder Voting    Agreement in violation of their fiduciary duties, and    (iii) the director defendants, Cardiff and Buyer allegedly    acted in concert and conspired to permit the director defendants    and Cardiff to violate their fiduciary duties.    Mr. Hillenmeyer's complaint seeks equitable relief,    including, among other things, an injunction against    consummation of the Wireline Sale and rescission, to the extent    implemented, of the Equity Purchase Agreement, the Stockholder    Voting Agreement and the Wireline Sale. In addition, the    complaint seeks repayment to the Company by the director    defendants of all compensation and other remuneration paid to    any of them during the period of the alleged breaches of their    fiduciary duties.
 
    The three actions are being coordinated in one proceeding, and    discovery is ongoing. The court has scheduled a hearing for    May 11, 2006 on plaintiffs' motion to preliminarily    enjoin the Wireline Sale. Although the Company believes the    above complaints to be without merit and intends to defend them    vigorously, it is not possible to render a view of the likely    outcome of these proceedings.
 
    Houlihan    Lokey Howard and Zukin Capital LLC


 
    On February 21, 2003, Houlihan Lokey Howard and Zukin    Capital LLC (“HLHZ”) filed an Application for Payment    of Final Compensation as Debtor's Financial Advisor with    the U.S. Bankruptcy Court for the Southern District of New    York. The claim asserted a right to payment of fees in excess of    $19 million and represents HLHZ's claim for advising    XOC in its financial restructuring in 2002 and 2003. High River    Limited Partnership and Meadow Walk Limited Partnership, two    entities controlled by Mr. Icahn, and XOC objected to the    fee claim on the ground that, inter alia, it was grossly    excessive and, accordingly, not reasonable compensation under    applicable provisions of the Bankruptcy Code. On March 9,    2005, the Bankruptcy Court ruled that the appropriate fee in    this matter was $4.4 million, credited XOC with    $2.0 million for amounts previously paid, and ordered XOC    to pay the difference to HLHZ. XOC paid the amount in full on    March 31, 2005. On March 31, 2005, HLHZ appealed the    Bankruptcy Court ruling. The appeal is pending.
 
    Cox    Communications Las Vegas, Indefeasible Right of Use (IRU)    Agreement


 
    On July 19, 2004, XOC informed Cox Communications Las Vegas    (“Cox”) that XOC was disputing as wrongly calculated    an invoice that Cox had submitted to XOC in the amount of    approximately $2.8 million. The dispute arises from an IRU    Agreement between Cox and XOC in which XOC leased from Cox    certain fiber optic facilities in the Las Vegas, Nevada area. In    February 2005 the parties unsuccessfully engaged in mediation.    Cox notified XOC that is was proceeding to binding arbitration.    XOC filed a $3.5 million counterclaim based on over-billing    by Cox. Because the IRU Agreement is an ongoing agreement, the    amounts in dispute and the counterclaim increase monthly. Cox    has claimed an aggregate of in excess of $4.0 million in    respect of such dispute. Arbitration is pending.
 
    In accordance with the terms of the IRU Agreement, in September    2005, XOC requested renewal of the IRU Agreement upon its    expiration in April 2006. Cox declined to renew the IRU    Agreement alleging that XOC is in Default as such term is    defined under the IRU Agreement based on the ongoing dispute.    XOC does
        F-30
Table of Contents

    not believe that the ongoing dispute constitutes a Default.    Arbitration is pending. If Cox is successful in its assertion    and declines to renew the IRU Agreement, the Company's    ability to provide services to customers in the Las Vegas area    at competitive rates will be adversely affected.
 
    Level 3


 
    The Company has received correspondence from Level 3    indicating that, as a result of statements made in its 2004 10K    filing, wherein XOC said that it is considering among other    options, lighting its dark fiber in the United States to create    wavelengths capacity, XOC was in material breach of its    contractual obligations to Level 3. Potential damages for    this alleged breach could be significant although XOC believes    the Level 3 claim has little merit.
 
    Verizon    Indemnification Notice


 
    On or about October 12, 2005, pursuant to certain    indemnification provisions contained in a March 14, 2002,    Services Agreement between XO Interactive (“XOI”), a    subsidiary of XO LLC, and VSSI/Verizon (“Verizon”),    Verizon notified XOI that Verizon and its subsidiaries, among    others, had been sued by Aerotel, Ltd. for breach of contract    and declaratory judgment in the United States Court for the    Southern District of New York on January 7, 2005. (Aerotel,    LTD v Verizon Company et al (CA 05 CV 0120 (TPG))). The    suit relates to certain prepaid calling card services, and    Aerotel's claim that Verizon's provision of those    services are covered by an Aerotel patent, and unless licensed,    infringe that patent; that Verizon obtained a license under the    patent from Aerotel; but that Verizon has defaulted in payment    of licensing royalties. XOI has not acknowledged any such    infringement, or liability either to Verizon or Aerotel, but is    cooperating both with Verizon, with respect to the indemnity    provisions, and Aerotel, with respect to its subpoena to XOI for    information and documents.
 
    
    

        21.  


        RESTRUCTURING    CHARGE




 
    During 2003, the Company recorded restructuring charges from the    reduction of its work force and estimated losses associated with    restructured leases.
 
    As of December 31, 2005, the remaining restructuring    accrual was $37.3 million, of which $12.2 million is    classified as a current liability. The restructuring accrual    decreased from $43.7 million as of December 31, 2004,    primarily due to payments associated with exited leased    facilities.
 
    The following table is a reconciliation of the beginning and    ending restructuring accrual:
 
     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	
    Balance as of January 1, 2003    


 
    $
    38,725
 

    Additions    


 
 
    11,618
 

    Reorganization adjustments    


 
 
    26,809
 

    Usage    


 
 
    (17,176
    )

    Balance as of December 31,    2003    


 
    $
    59,976
 

 
 
 
 
 

    Balance as of January 1, 2004    


 
    $
    59,976
 

    Estimate revisions    


 
 
    (2,971
    )

    Usage    


 
 
    (13,349
    )

    Balance as of December 31,    2004    


 
    $
    43,656
 

 
 
 
 
 

    Balance as of January 1, 2005    


 
    $
    43,656
 

    Estimate revisions    


 
 
    1,655
 

    Usage    


 
 
    (7,972
    )

    Balance as of December 31,    2005    


 
    $
    37,339
 

 
 
 
 
 



        F-31
Table of Contents

    
    

        22.  


        REORGANIZATION




 
    On January 16, 2003 (the “Effective Date”), XOC    consummated its Plan of Reorganization and emerged from its    Chapter 11 reorganization proceedings with a significantly    restructured balance sheet. The consummation of the Plan of    Reorganization resulted in the following changes in XOC's    capital structure:
 
    
    
    

     
        • 
        The conversion of $1.0 billion of loans under its    pre-petition secured credit facility into $500.0 million of    outstanding principal amount under an amended and restated    credit agreement;

 

     
        • 
        The extinguishment of all amounts due under its pre-petition    unsecured senior and subordinated notes and certain general    unsecured obligations;

 

     
        • 
        The cancellation of all outstanding shares and interests in its    pre-petition preferred stock and pre-petition common    stock; and

 

     
        • 
        The issuance of approximately 95.0 million shares of common    stock of the reorganized Company and warrants to purchase up to    an additional 23.75 million shares of the common stock of    the reorganized Company.


 
    The Company adopted the fresh start accounting provisions    (“fresh start”) of    SOP 90-7
    “Financial Reporting by Entities in Reorganization under    the Bankruptcy Code”,    (“SOP 90-7)
    during the first quarter of 2003. Due to the immateriality of    the results of operations for the period between January 1,    2003 and the Effective Date, the Company accounted for the    consummation of the Plan of Reorganization as if it had occurred    on January 1, 2003 and implemented fresh start reporting as    of that date. Fresh start requires that the Company adjust the    historical cost of its assets and liabilities to their fair    value. The fair value of the reorganized Company of    approximately $1.3 billion was determined based on the    negotiated sum of the reorganized Company's liabilities and    equity that were issued and outstanding after final negotiations    and Bankruptcy Court approval. These included    $500.0 million of debt outstanding under the Credit    Facility, $475.0 million of XOC's common stock, and    $373.1 million of other liabilities that were not    eliminated or discharged under the Plan of Reorganization.
 
    Fresh start requires that the reorganization value be allocated    to the entity's net assets in conformity with procedures    specified by SFAS No. 141. The Company engaged an    independent appraiser to assist in the allocation of the    reorganization value to the reorganized Company's assets    and liabilities by determining the fair market value of its    property and equipment, intangible assets and certain    obligations related to its facility
        F-32
Table of Contents

    leases. A reconciliation of the adjustments recorded in    connection with effecting the Plan of Reorganization and    adopting fresh start accounting is presented below (dollars in    thousands):
 
     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	
 
 
    Predecessor XO    


 
 
 
 
 
    Fresh Start    


 
 
    Reorganized XO    


 

 
 
    December 31, 2002


 
 
    Reorganization


 
 
    Adjustments(d)


 
 
    January 1, 2003


 

 

    ASSETS



 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

    Current assets:    


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

    Cash and cash equivalents    


 
    $
    314,038
 
 
    $
    —
 
 
    $
    —
 
 
    $
    314,038
 

    Marketable securities    


 
 
    246,945
 
 
 
    —
 
 
 
    —
 
 
 
    246,945
 

    Accounts receivable, net    


 
 
    116,541
 
 
 
    —
 
 
 
    —
 
 
 
    116,541
 

    Other current assets    


 
 
    83,480
 
 
 
    —
 
 
 
    (48,288
    )
 
 
    35,192
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

    Total current assets    


 
 
    761,004
 
 
 
    —
 
 
 
    (48,288
    )
 
 
    712,716
 

    Property and equipment, net    


 
 
    2,780,589
 
 
 
    —
 
 
 
    (2,304,001
    )
 
 
    476,588
 

    Broadband wireless licenses and    other intangibles, net    


 
 
    984,614
 
 
 
    —
 
 
 
    (848,936
    )
 
 
    135,678
 

    Other assets, net    


 
 
    59,289
 
 
 
    —
 
 
 
    (36,181
    )
 
 
    23,108
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

    Total assets    


 
    $
    4,585,496
 
 
    $
    —
 
 
    $
    (3,237,406
    )
 
    $
    1,348,090
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

    LIABILITIES AND    STOCKHOLDERS' (DEFICIT) EQUITY




    Current liabilities:    


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

    Accounts payable    


 
    $
    63,729
 
 
    $
    —
 
 
    $
    3,539
 
 
    $
    67,268
 

    Accrued liabilities    


 
 
    266,102
 
 
 
    —
 
 
 
    (30,910
    )
 
 
    235,192
 

    Current liabilities subject to    compromise    


 
 
    5,497,207
 
 
 
    (5,466,667
    )(a)
 
 
    (30,540
    )
 
 
    —
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

    Total current liabilities    


 
 
    5,827,038
 
 
 
    (5,466,667
    )
 
 
    (57,911
    )
 
 
    302,460
 

    Long-term debt    


 
 
    —
 
 
 
    500,000
    (b)
 
 
    —
 
 
 
    500,000
 

    Other long-term liabilities    


 
 
    75,242
 
 
 
    —
 
 
 
    (4,612
    )
 
 
    70,630
 

    Long-term liabilities subject to    compromise    


 
 
    7,182
 
 
 
    —
 
 
 
    (7,182
    )
 
 
    —
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

    Total liabilities    


 
 
    5,909,462
 
 
 
    (4,966,667
    )
 
 
    (69,705
    )
 
 
    873,090
 

    Predecessor XO redeemable    preferred stock  —  subject to    compromise    


 
 
    1,708,316
 
 
 
    (1,708,316
    )(a)
 
 
    —
 
 
 
    —
 

    Stockholders' (deficit)    equity:    


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

    Predecessor XO common stock    


 
 
    4,628,139
 
 
 
    —
 
 
 
    (4,628,139
    )
 
 
    —
 

    Reorganized XO common stock and    warrants    


 
 
    —
 
 
 
    475,000
    (c)
 
 
    —
 
 
 
    475,000
 

    Deferred compensation    


 
 
    (8,500
    )
 
 
    —
 
 
 
    8,500
 
 
 
    —
 

    Accumulated other comprehensive    income    


 
 
    2,512
 
 
 
    —
 
 
 
    (2,512
    )
 
 
    —
 

    Accumulated deficit    


 
 
    (7,654,433
    )
 
 
    6,199,983
    (e)
 
 
    1,454,450
 
 
 
    —
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

    Total stockholders' (deficit)    equity    


 
 
    (3,032,282
    )
 
 
    6,674,983
 
 
 
    (3,167,701
    )(e)
 
 
    475,000
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

    Total liabilities and    stockholders' (deficit) equity    


 
    $
    4,585,496
 
 
    $
    —
 
 
    $
    (3,237,406
    )
 
    $
    1,348,090
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 



 

 
    
    
    

        (a) 
    
        To record the discharge of pre-petition indebtedness, including    a $1.0 billion credit facility, $4.2 billion of senior    and convertible subordinated notes, $245.2 million of    accrued interest, and the elimination of $1.7 billion of    pre-petition redeemable preferred stock and $50.6 million    of accrued dividends, all in accordance with the Plan of    Reorganization.


        F-33
Table of Contents

    
    
    

        (b) 
    
        To record the outstanding principal under the Credit Agreement,    in accordance with the Plan of Reorganization.

 

        (c) 
    
        To record the issuance of 95.0 million shares of New Common    Stock and warrants in accordance with the Plan of    Reorganization. Participation in the Rights Offering was    recorded in the first quarter of 2004.

 

        (d) 
    
        To adjust the carrying value of assets, liabilities and    stockholders' equity to fair value, in accordance with    fresh start.

 

        (e) 
    
        Net reorganization gain on January 1, 2003 consisted of the    following (dollars in thousands):


 
     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	
    Net gain resulting from    reorganization of debt, preferred stock and equity    


 
    $
    6,199,983
 

    Net loss resulting from fresh    start fair value adjustments to assets and liabilities    


 
 
    (3,167,701
    )

 
 
 
 
 

    Total reorganization gain, net    


 
    $
    3,032,282
 

 
 
 
 
 



        F-34
Table of Contents

    XO    Communications, Inc.


 
    Schedule II  —  Consolidated    Valuation and Qualifying Accounts    
For The Years Ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003

 
     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	     
	
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    Additions/    


 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    Reductions    


 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
    Beginning    


 
 
    Reorganization    


 
 
    charged to    


 
 
 
 
 
    Ending    


 

    (dollars in thousands)



 
    Balance


 
 
    Adjustments


 
 
    expense


 
 
    Reductions


 
 
    Balance


 

 

    Allowance for doubtful accounts    


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

    2003    


 
    $
    37,030
 
 
    $
    —
 
 
    $
    29,998
 
 
    $
    (34,042
    )
 
    $
    32,986
 

    2004    


 
    $
    32,986
 
 
    $
    —
 
 
    $
    34,898
 
 
    $
    (28,903
    )
 
    $
    38,981
 

    2005    


 
    $
    38,981
 
 
    $
    —
 
 
    $
    33,502
 
 
    $
    (36,422
    )
 
    $
    36,061
 



        S-1




EX-21.12w18563exv21w1.htmEX-21.1exv21w1

 
Exhibit 21.1
     
     
     

     
     
    Jurisdiction of


    Entity Name

     
    Incorporation


     

     
     

    XO Holdings, Inc.


     
    Delaware


     

     
     

    XO Holdings, Inc. Subsidiaries:


     
     

    LMDS Holdings, Inc.

     
    Delaware

    V & K Holdings.

     
    Delaware

    XO Communications, LLC.

     
    Delaware

     

     
     

    XO Communications, LLC Subsidiaries:


     
     

    LHP Equipment, Inc.

     
    Delaware

    XO Communications Services, Inc.

     
    Delaware

    XO Interactive, Inc.

     
    Washington

    XO International Holdings, Inc.

     
    Delaware

    XO Services, Inc.

     
    Delaware

    XO Nevada Merger Sub, Inc

     
    Delaware

    50% Interest in Telecommunications of Nevada, L.L.C.

     
    Delaware

    XO Management Services, Inc

     
    Washington

    XO Global Communications, Inc

     
    Delaware

    Coast to Coast Telecommunications, Inc.

     
    Delaware

    XO Long Distance Services (Virginia), LLC

     
    Delaware

     

     
     

    XO Communications Services, Inc. Subsidiaries:


     
     

    XO Intercity Holdings No. 1, LLC.

     
    Washington

    XO Mindshare, LLC.

     
    Washington

    XO Virginia, LLC.

     
    Washington

     

     
     

    XO Management Services, Inc. Subsidiary:


     
     

    XO Management Services Nevada, Inc.

     
    Washington

     

     
     

    XO International Holdings, Inc. Subsidiaries:


     
     

    XO International, Inc.

     
    Delaware

    Nextlink Global ApS

     
    Denmark

    99% Interest in XO Asia Limited

     
    Hong Kong

     

     
     

    XO International, Inc. Subsidiaries:


     
     

    1% Interest in XO Asia Limited

     
    Hong Kong

     

     
     

    XO Intercity Holdings No. 1, LLC Subsidiaries:


     
     

    XO Data Services, LLC.

     
    Delaware

    XO Intercity Holdings No. 2, LLC

     
    Delaware

     

     
     

    XO Nevada Merger Sub., Inc. Subsidiary:


     
     

    50% Interest in Telecommunications of Nevada, L.L.C.

     
    Delaware








EX-23.13w18563exv23w1.htmEX-23.1exv23w1

 
Exhibit 23.1

Consent of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm


The Board of DirectorsXO Holdings, Inc.:
We consent to the incorporation by reference in the registration statements (No. 333-103428 and No.333-106302) on Form S-8 of XO Holdings, Inc. of our reports dated March 16, 2006, with respect tothe consolidated balance sheets of XO Communications, Inc., predecessor of XO Holdings, Inc., as ofDecember 31, 2005 and 2004, and the related consolidated statements of operations, stockholders'equity, and cash flows for the years ended December 31, 2005 and 2004, and for the period fromJanuary 1, 2003 to December 31, 2003 (XO period) and for the portion of January 1, 2003, related toPredecessor XO's reorganization gain (Predecessor XO period), and the related consolidatedfinancial statement schedule, management's assessment of the effectiveness of internal control overfinancial reporting as of December 31, 2005, and the effectiveness of internal control overfinancial reporting as of December 31, 2005, which reports appear in the December 31, 2005 annualreport on Form 10-K of XO Holdings, Inc.
As discussed in Note 22 to the consolidated financial statements, on January 16, 2003, XOCommunications, Inc. emerged from bankruptcy. The consolidated financial statements of XOCommunications, Inc. reflect the impacts of adjustments to reflect the fair value of assets andliabilities under fresh start reporting, which was applied effective January 1, 2003. As a result,the consolidated financial statements of XO Communications, Inc. are presented on a different basisthan those of Predecessor XO and, therefore, are not comparable in all respects.
/s/ KPMG LLP
McLean, VAMarch 16, 2006





EX-31.14w18563exv31w1.htmEX-31.1exv31w1

 
    Exhibit 31.1    

 
    CERTIFICATIONS


 
    I, Carl J. Grivner, certify that:
 
    1. I have reviewed this annual report on    Form 10-K
    of XO Holdings, Inc.;
 
    2. Based on my knowledge, this annual report does not    contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state    a material fact necessary to make statements made, in light of    the circumstances under which such statements were made, not    misleading with respect to the period covered by this report;
 
    3. Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and    other financial information included in this annual report,    fairly present in all material respects the financial condition,    results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of,    and for, the periods presented in this annual report;
 
    4. The registrant's other certifying officer and I are    responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls    and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act    Rules 13a-15(e)
    and    15d-15(e))
    and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in    Exchange Act    Rules 13a-15(f)
    and    15d-15(f))
    for the registrant and have:
 
    
    
    

     
        a) 
        designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such    disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our    supervision, to ensure that material information relating to the    registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made    known to us by others within those entities, particularly during    the period in which this annual report is being prepared;

 

     
        b) 
        designed such internal control over financial reporting, or    caused such internal control over financial reporting to be    designed under our supervision, to provide reasonable assurance    regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the    preparation of financial statements for external purposes in    accordance with generally accepted accounting principles;

 

     
        c) 
        evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant's disclosure    controls and procedures and presented in this annual report our    conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls    and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this    report based on such evaluation; and

 

     
        d) 
        disclosed in this report any change in the registrant's    internal control over financial reporting that occurred during    the registrant's most recent fiscal quarter that has    materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially    affect, the registrant's internal control over financial    reporting; and


 
    5. The registrant's other certifying officer and I    have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal    control over financial reporting, to the registrant's    auditors and the audit committee of registrant's board of    directors (or persons performing the equivalent function):
 
    
    
    

     
        a) 
        all significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the    design or operation of internal controls over financial    reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect the    registrant's ability to record, process, summarize and    report financial information; and

 

     
        b) 
        any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or    other employees who have a significant role in the    registrant's internal control over financial reporting.


 
 
    Date: March 16, 2006
    /s/  Carl    J. Grivner
    


    Carl J. Grivner
    Chief Executive Officer

    (Principal Executive Officer)





EX-31.25w18563exv31w2.htmEX-31.2exv31w2

 
    Exhibit 31.2


 
    CERTIFICATIONS


 
    I, William Garrahan, certify that:
 
    1. I have reviewed this annual report on    Form 10-K
    of XO Holdings, Inc.;
 
    2. Based on my knowledge, this annual report does not    contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state    a material fact necessary to make statements made, in light of    the circumstances under which such statements were made, not    misleading with respect to the period covered by this report;
 
    3. Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and    other financial information included in this annual report,    fairly present in all material respects the financial condition,    results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of,    and for, the periods presented in this annual report;
 
    4. The registrant's other certifying officer and I are    responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls    and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act    Rules 13a-15(e)
    and    15d-15(e))
    and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in    Exchange Act    Rules 13a-15(f)
    and    15d-15(f))
    for the registrant and have:
 
    
    
    

     
        a) 
        designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such    disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our    supervision, to ensure that material information relating to the    registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made    known to us by others within those entities, particularly during    the period in which this annual report is being prepared;

 

     
        b) 
        designed such internal control over financial reporting, or    caused such internal control over financial reporting to be    designed under our supervision, to provide reasonable assurance    regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the    preparation of financial statements for external purposes in    accordance with generally accepted accounting principles;

 

     
        c) 
        evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant's disclosure    controls and procedures and presented in this annual report our    conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls    and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this    report based on such evaluation; and

 

     
        d) 
        disclosed in this report any change in the registrant's    internal control over financial reporting that occurred during    the registrant's most recent fiscal quarter that has    materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially    affect, the registrant's internal control over financial    reporting; and


 
    5. The registrant's other certifying officer and I    have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal    control over financial reporting, to the registrant's    auditors and the audit committee of registrant's board of    directors (or persons performing the equivalent function):
 
    
    
    

     
        a) 
        all significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the    design or operation of internal control over financial reporting    which are reasonably likely to adversely affect the    registrant's ability to record, process, summarize and    report financial information; and

 

     
        b) 
        any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or    other employees who have a significant role in the    registrant's internal control over financial reporting.


 
 
    Date: March 16, 2006
    /s/  William    Garrahan
    


    William Garrahan

    Senior Vice President and

    Acting Chief Financial Officer

    (Principal Financial Officer)





EX-32.16w18563exv32w1.htmEX-32.1exv32w1

 
    EXHIBIT 32.1


 
    CERTIFICATE    PURSUANT TO    18 U.S.C. SECTION 1350    AS ADOPTED PURSUANT TO    SECTION 906 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002


 
    In connection with the Annual Report on    Form 10-K
    for the year ended December 31, 2005 of XO Holdings, Inc.    (the “Company”), as filed with the Securities and    Exchange Commission on the date hereof (the    “Report”), I, Carl J. Grivner, Chief Executive    Officer of the Company, certify, pursuant to 18 U.S.C.    Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of    the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, that to the best of my knowledge:
 
    1. The Report fully complies with the requirements of    Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of    1934 (15 U.S.C. 78m or 78o(d)); and
 
    2. The information contained in the Report fairly presents,    in all material respects, the financial condition and results of    operations of the Company.
 
 
    Date: March 16, 2006
    /s/  Carl    J. Grivner
    


    Carl J. Grivner

    Chief Executive Officer

    (Principal Executive Officer)





EX-32.27w18563exv32w2.htmEX-32.2exv32w2

 
    EXHIBIT 32.2


 
    CERTIFICATE    PURSUANT TO    18 U.S.C. SECTION 1350    AS ADOPTED PURSUANT TO    SECTION 906 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002


 
    In connection with the Annual Report on    Form 10-K
    for the year ended December 31, 2005 of XO Holdings, Inc.    (the “Company”), as filed with the Securities and    Exchange Commission on the date hereof (the    “Report”), I, William Garrahan, Senior Vice    President and Acting Chief Financial Officer of the Company,    certify, pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as    adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act    of 2002, that to the best of my knowledge:
 
    1. The Report fully complies with the requirements of    Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of    1934 (15 U.S.C. 78m or 78o(d)); and
 
    2. The information contained in the Report fairly presents,    in all material respects, the financial condition and results of    operations of the Company.
 
 
    Date: March 16, 2006
    /s/  William    Garrahan
    


    William Garrahan

    Senior Vice President and Acting

    Chief Financial Officer

    (Principal Financial Officer)





GRAPHIC8w18563w1856303.gifGRAPHIC

GRAPHIC9w18563w1856304.gifGRAPHIC


-----END PRIVACY-ENHANCED MESSAGE-----