        (7)

        Certain reclassifications to prior period information have been made to conform to current year presentation.


 


49


ITEM 7.

     MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS


     This “Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” contains forward-looking statements which involve inherent risks and uncertainties.Statements that are not historical facts, including statements about the Company's beliefs and expectations, are forward-looking statements. These statements are based upon current plans, estimates and expectations. Actual results may differmaterially from those projected in such forward-looking statements, and therefore undue reliance should not be placed on them. See “Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements” for a list of additional factors that could causeactual results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statement.

     This discussion and analysis should be read in conjunction with the audited Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes thereto presented under Item 8.

     Certain aspects of the Company's business have loss experience characterized as low frequency and high severity. This may result in volatility in both the Company's results ofoperations and financial condition.

Executive Overview

     The Company operates on a global basis primarily in the property and casualty industry and, to a lesser extent, the financial services industry. The Company serves the insurance, reinsuranceand financial services needs of institutional and corporate clients, typically the global equivalent of the Fortune 2000. The Company operates in markets where the Company believes its underwriting expertise and financial strength represent arelative advantage. The Company does not operate in any retail markets.

     The property and casualty insurance and reinsurance markets have historically been cyclical, meaning that based on market conditions, there have been periods where premium rates are high andpolicy terms and conditions are more favorable (a “hard market”) to the Company and there have been periods where premium rates decline and policy terms and conditions are less favorable (a “soft market”) to the Company. This hasbeen driven primarily by competition in the marketplace, the supply of capital in the industry, investment yields and the frequency and severity of loss events. Management's goal is to build long-term shareholder value by capitalizing oncurrent opportunities and managing through any potential downward cycles by reducing its property and casualty book of business and exposures if and when rates deteriorate to unprofitable levels for the Company. As part of its long-term strategy,the Company also looks to its financial products and services segment to provide a diversified stream of earnings that are not directly tied to the property and casualty cycle. In this regard, the Company's financial guaranty operations havesubstantially achieved relative trading parity with its peers.

     The Company has grown through acquisition activity and development of new business opportunities. Acquisitionsincluded Global Capital Underwriting Ltd in 1996, Mid Ocean Limited in 1998,ECS, Inc. and NAC Re Corp. in 1999, Winterthur International in 2001 and Le MansRÉ in 2002. All acquisitions have supportedthe Company's strategic plan to develop a global platform in insurance and reinsurance. Recent business developments include XL Capital Assurance Inc. and XL Financial Assurance Ltd., the Company's financial guaranty primary andreinsurance guarantors, XL Weather & Energy Inc. and XL Life Insurance & AnnuityCompany. As a result of these combined developments, the Company now competesas an integrated global business with more than 3,500 employees in 29 countries.

     The Company earns its revenue primarily from net premiums written and earned. Premium rates in the property and casualty industry began to increase in 2001 following five years of poorunderwriting performance in the industry. These price increases were further compounded by the September 11 event. In the three years ended December 31, 2003, the Company experienced pricing increases and improved terms and conditions across most ofthe lines of business it writes. These generally across-the-board price increases were unprecedented, meaning that, in the past, pricing increases and more favorable terms and conditions were not experienced across all of the Company's productlines at one point in any one cycle.

50


     During 2004, property and casualty market conditions overall remained attractive although price competition increased throughout the year, most notably in regards to property and professionallines. Accordingly, the Company continued to focus on disciplined risk selection. In relation to insurance and reinsurance, downward pressure on rates across most non-catastrophe exposed lines continued throughout 2005 although the impact of the2004 storm season, the backdrop of continued emergence of adverse development related to the market of the late 1990s and concerns about reinsurer financial strength, all served to reinforce a sense of discipline in the market.

     Subsequent to the unprecedented catastrophic losses in 2005 and into the 2006 first quarter renewals, the market in general has seen an improvement in terms and conditions as well as pricing,in particular in geographic territories and classes impacted by the catastrophe losses. Casualty and professional lines, which have seen significant price reductions in 2004 and 2005, have begun to stabilize. In the Reinsurance segment, however,these improvements have been offset somewhat by increased ceding company retentions which is common in a hardening market. While the Company is not focused on top line premium growth unless it is profitable and meets demanding standards and internalhurdle rates, the Company's expectation is for flat earned premium growth for the full year of 2006, with insurance contributing flat to low single digit growth and reinsurance contributing flat to mid-single digit declines.

     The Company also generates revenue from investment activities through returns on its investment portfolio. The Company's current investment strategy seeks to support the liabilitiesarising from the operations of the Company, generate investment income and build book value over the longer term. During both 2005 and 2004, interest rates in the U.S. increased. During 2005, the U.S. yield curve flattened significantly, as short tomedium term rates increased significantly while long-term rates showed a small decline. The benchmark 90-day treasury rose from 2.22% to 4.08% and the 5-year treasury rose from 3.61% to 4.35%, while the 30-year treasury fell from 4.83% to 4.54% .Interest rates declined in the U.K., where the yield on the benchmark 5-year Gilt fell from 4.49% to 4.17%, however, in the Euro-zone, the yield on the benchmark 5-year German Bund rose slightly from 3.03% to 3.07% .

     The Company expects net investment income to rise in 2006 supported by positive cash flow from operating activities and anticipated moderate increases in market interest rates.

     In 2005, the Company generated net realized gains from both its equity and fixed income portfolios, reflecting the current and accumulated performance of the capital markets. In 2004, theCompany generated net realized gains from both its equity and fixed income portfolios reflecting the overall performance of capital markets and the deterioration of the U.S. dollar relative to foreign currencies. In 2003, the Company generated netrealized gains from both its equity and fixed income portfolios reflecting the overall improvement in capital markets and narrowing of credit spreads.

     The Company's profitability in any given period is based upon its premium and investment revenues as noted above, less net losses incurred and expenses. Net losses incurred are based uponclaims paid and changes to unpaid loss reserves. Unpaid loss reserves are estimated by the Company and include both reported loss reserves and reserves for losses incurred but not reported. The Company's results for 2005 were significantlyimpacted by the unprecedented insured hurricane losses during the 2005 Atlantic hurricane season, the charge related to the conclusion of the independent actuarial process with Winterthur Swiss Insurance Company and adverse development of prior yearloss reserves in both insurance professional lines and reinsurance casualty lines. The Company's results for 2004 were also significantly impacted by the catastrophe activity in the year, which resulted in $591.2 million in estimated netloss and loss expenses, combined with adverse prior year development in certain lines of the Company's insurance segment. For a further discussion of these events see “Results of Operations” below.

51


     Financial measures

     The following are some of the financial measures management considers important in evaluating the Company's operating performance in the Company's general operations:

        (U.S. dollars in thousands, except ratios and per share amounts)

         
                 
                 
                      2005

          

                      

                      

                      2004

          

                      

                      

                      2003

          

                 

                
                
                
                
                
                 
                
                
                
                 
                
                
                
                 

        Underwriting (loss) profit - general operations
         
                 
                 
        $
         
        (2,268,164
        
        )
         
                 
        $
        
        343,990
        
                 
                 
        $
        
        (112,594
        
        )
         

        Combined ratio - general operations
         
                 
                 
                 
        132.9
        
        %
         
                 
                
        95.9
        
        %
         
                 
                
        102.8
        
        %
         

        Investment income - general operations
